Capstone Coach 1: Can anybody see my screen.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, good Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: it's a little confusing here right now.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, well good.
Capstone Coach 1: Right no mask tonight hey.
Capstone Coach 1: I can breathe whoa you know it's actually not that bad you get used to you forget about it, after a while, but.
Capstone Coach 1: But anyway, I kind of like the setup.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm glad i'm glad to be here and life I didn't I don't think there's anyone in Houston we had one or two students coming in and they said they were going to be absence today so it's part of the reason i'm here.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to be talking about the homework from week number eight and then we'll talk about deep learning and machine learning and and get into that.
Capstone Coach 1: The good and the bad of it, I just encountered the bad of it my computer crashed about an hour ago and had to I had to rebuild everything so.
Capstone Coach 1: A little bit a little bit anxious here but we'll see how this cost me, we may have a shorter class than usual we'll see okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So i've got a hands up on.
Capstone Coach 1: Wait a minute I don't get my.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh there it is.
Capstone Coach 1: I really i'm really out of practice.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh wrong switch.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay that's better.
Capstone Coach 1: But I like to see.
Capstone Coach 1: Everyone, or at least see the chat some kind of opening up this little thing on the chat and I think Chad.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, feel free to interrupt us yeah as i'm sure many of you have had some good practice on that so last summer we did this, and people felt free to interrupt and I think that's great i'll respond to that as as best I mabel.
Capstone Coach 1: As I said, I feel a little awkward here, because I, this is the first time in a long while, and i've got two computers, going so it's kind of weird.
Capstone Coach 1: All right.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, oh no that was me.
Kilani, Shadi: knows, I think it says chat feature is disabled.
Kilani, Shadi: I don't know if you're aware of Sir.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh no, no, I didn't know that oh.
Kilani, Shadi: yeah we found chatting says chat is disabled.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay it's something I need to.
Capstone Coach 1: wow Okay, I think.
Jim Clark: On the information you need to reach a since you're the host rich easily or maybe.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh there, it is the chat okay i've got a.
Capstone Coach 1: which says chat disabled you know I think that's whoever the hostess it's not me, by the way, i'm not officially i'm not the host.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Oh.
Capstone Coach 1: So there's somebody in here I don't think I think Elizabeth sexually on on leaf tonight as well.
Hermano Ferreira: In mark babies, can you activate the chat for us, please.
Yes.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'm doing.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Okay, can you guys Center.
Hermano Ferreira: Yes.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, I got it I see it says everyone Okay, we got the chatline going so i'm gonna.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't I can't see that very well, our core my eyes, so if you post a question I don't notice that you might interrupt me but.
MS Analytics Class 2021: i'll look them up until you if you would like.
Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right.
Capstone Coach 1: So Okay, I hope we got everything going all right let's let's.
Capstone Coach 1: Try this Okay, so what we're going to do is we're going to start by talking about the sea solution to the week eight assignment.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we'll do an introduction on machine learning some of this may sound familiar because we talked about tensorflow and charisse a little bit last summer.
Capstone Coach 1: And we'll be doing that again tonight, and then I haven't really I, as I mentioned earlier, I was I got interrupted my computer basically locked up on me did some strange things and i'm i'm still not sure what was going on, but so i'm trying to recover from that.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, the weekend assignment the weekend assignment rather there was two part two parts to it and.
Capstone Coach 1: Those of you that had the drone got to go out maybe go outside or go in your garage or your house or somewhere.
Capstone Coach 1: And then fly the little drone I did this myself on Sunday, it was a nice day and the wind was down to about five miles per hour somewhere around there, so I actually to.
Capstone Coach 1: You know shot a video, and this is my video, it is on the if you go to the weekend assignment folder you'll find this little video and then also a little write up that idea.
Capstone Coach 1: Talking about what idea and where I encountered and things like that similar to what what you might do this is the first time i've ever tried to fly this thing outside.
Capstone Coach 1: i've been a little reluctant, because it is pretty small and pretty light I hope nobody lost their drone because what I found out was even with five miles worth of wind.
Capstone Coach 1: The drone is struggles to you know stand still part of that reason is because the drone uses a downward looking sensor and those are two little beady eyes on the bottom of the drone.
Capstone Coach 1: And the manufacturers says that above 30 feet, the drone can't see the ground very well and all bets are off so.
Capstone Coach 1: I was flying it and I got up to about 30 feet and the drone starts going shaking around and moving around and luckily I wasn't close to a tree at the time when worst nightmare is the drone like.
Capstone Coach 1: Land inside of a tree it's 30 or 40 feet up there can't get it back that didn't happen to me, I hope it didn't happen didn't happen to you either.
Capstone Coach 1: So yeah So this is the drone there was a little family coming in ground off sidewalk there when I was doing the drone and then I.
Capstone Coach 1: Thought well, it might be okay to take a picture of a tree.
Capstone Coach 1: And if you can, if you look here you'll see a little birds nest in that rat versus has been there for several years and the birds come back every spring and lay eggs.
Capstone Coach 1: But notice the shaking on the video here that's the wind, there is no gimbal Lino the cameras know gimbal so most larger drones they have a gamble and that.
Capstone Coach 1: eliminates the shaking problem and the balancing of the camera problem there's a wind coming in, again, and then it's going back down by the way, I saw my neighbor's roof he looks like he's got some shingle problems and.
Capstone Coach 1: Anyway, it was a nice day to do this sort of thing, and I hope you did something similar i'm looking forward to looking at them, so please upload your your all your videos and there was a short one page about you what you did.
Capstone Coach 1: Did you lose the draw to fly into a tree anything weird like that hope not, or just go to experience.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so yeah I just I mentioned, I was really shocked that at five mile five mile an hour breeze you get about 20 feet up there, and this little drone is just really struggling to stay in place.
Capstone Coach 1: Fortunately, it has a very small battery and if it did fly off somewhere it's not going very far because of run out of battery juice and come down and land somewhere.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay option to threading, and this was a small data file the data file you've seen before it's called the oil by calling the oil production file.
Capstone Coach 1: And the target here is the logarithm of the cumulative production, you can see that there and what we're trying to do is predict this answer for variable using regression analysis neural network or random forest all three of those.
Capstone Coach 1: also noticed that there are two nominal variables here one of them as actually 28 values and the other 14 so you need to do some one hot encoding here.
Capstone Coach 1: I believe I gave you a template to do this, as you might not remember how to do all of that from last summer.
Capstone Coach 1: But this is the R IE really in a replace computing code routine and it's looking for missing values and outliers and then it also produces the one hot encoding you know for the data file.
Capstone Coach 1: And as you can see no missing values and no outliers really The main reason to do this with our IE is to get that one hot encoding and the rest of this is just you know icing on the cake, so to speak.
Capstone Coach 1: So there are total about 52 variables once you get all of the two nominal variables encoded.
Capstone Coach 1: So here are the threading versus the non threatening results, so what I did was I ran it, you know, I have two programs, and you, I think you had the the non threading Program.
Capstone Coach 1: And you can run that and then more fat into the threaded version which i'll talk about here in a minute, but I was checking to make sure that the numbers were exactly the same, and they should be.
Capstone Coach 1: The you know, the average squared errors should be the same total number of observations on all of that, on the thread side, this is the stepwise regression and then that took about 14 seconds for the regression thread.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, for the random force that was the longest running show, and this wouldn't this one took 37 seconds.
Capstone Coach 1: It also produced the smallest average squared our point oh for quite a bit smaller so small, in fact, that you might think that maybe we were.
Capstone Coach 1: overfitting the data and since I didn't do validation that's a valid claim we don't know and if we don't do validation whether we're overfitting the data or not.
Capstone Coach 1: And the the random force at a maximum depth of 30, which is quite you know large for tree and so possibly yes it's it's some overfitting going on here.
Capstone Coach 1: And this is the neural network we're going to talk more about neural networks, here it had a respectable average squared error, but not as good as the random forest.
Capstone Coach 1: The execution time for the neural network was only 20 seconds approximately.
Capstone Coach 1: And if you looked at the execution time for the threaded version versus the non threaded version, the execution, the total execution time for all three algorithms is.
Capstone Coach 1: virtually the same approximately 4544 seconds on my computer now on your computer it might have been a little bit more a little bit less.
Capstone Coach 1: But what we're looking at here is whether we got the same execution time with or without threats now one comment here.
Capstone Coach 1: Normally, you expect if you use threats to see a considerable decrease in the execution time.
Capstone Coach 1: And the reason you don't see that is because Python Python is a interpreted language as opposed to a compiled language and so.
Capstone Coach 1: It acts like it's doing threading, which means that it acts like it's actually running three independent in this case three independent programs simultaneously well in reality it is running three independent programs spot it's not doing it simultaneously.
Capstone Coach 1: Though if you wanted to do that you'd have to write the code and see but the the program would be almost identical to what you have in Python.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the the reason to use threading in Python is not because you expect the a significant improvement in the execution time.
Capstone Coach 1: You really have a couple of reasons there and one is that Oh, this is the total runtime for each of the threads.
Capstone Coach 1: And you can see the the random forest is where we really ate up some time that's what got us up to the 44 seconds, so the non threaded was a little bit slower like a half a second or something like that which is not a big deal and.
Capstone Coach 1: we'll get to that in just a minute, but let me, let me back up to the just a moment here the talking about.
Capstone Coach 1: The execution time the execution times are about the same and you would expect this to be the case if you carefully measure the execution time in both thread and non.
Capstone Coach 1: routines you should get approximately the same time, the advantage to using the threads is it helps you to organize your results and debug results and maintain the software if it's a large Program.
Capstone Coach 1: So, for example here you're looking at the log that came out from the threads.
Capstone Coach 1: And I can see if there's any kind of a strange thing going on inside of a thread, there will be a message in here an error message or a warning message, which would clearly point to you, to the place where Where are you headed at this problem.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, so it helps you do some debugging it also helps to organize the the output in, certainly in the log in the error log it's you're looking at here now you.
Capstone Coach 1: If you don't take care, you will end up with a printout that looks kind of strange because you have logging information for the threads.
Capstone Coach 1: intermixed with the actual print out from the different algorithms that are running here.
Capstone Coach 1: So you have stepwise regression running and it's printing things and then, at the same time, the neural network is printing things, and then they will like overlap and and get mixed in together that's the.
Capstone Coach 1: Real disadvantage, unless you take some action to prevent that and preventing it is fairly easy, let me show you how you do that.
Capstone Coach 1: We didn't talk about this in class, so this is a new new thing here.
Capstone Coach 1: If you want to have the threads return to you some information, then you day you need to set up a list an empty list, and this case i'm calling the lists.
Capstone Coach 1: q1 q2 and q3 relative to the three threads process one, two and three and you'll notice here that I just say okay Q on is empty that's an empty.
Capstone Coach 1: list and q2 is empty q3 and then I pass these arguments into the thread the arguments here and on the, of course, we want to pass the data X and y that's going on.
Capstone Coach 1: In the case of the regression analysis and we are actually passing the encoded data frame and the target instead of the X and the y the but in all three cases, you do have this Q.
Capstone Coach 1: one, two and three empty list that's going in there.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, what happens is in the list inside the thread it accepts these arguments as inputs to the.
Capstone Coach 1: function like, in this case you're looking at the random forest function so in the random forest function, you have a list called Q two.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you have X and y that are going in there, the thread will, I have a little timer that gets started right here.
Capstone Coach 1: And it and it actually puts into the log the time that it finished, but what we're doing in the middle of this is we're visiting the random forests using X and y.
Capstone Coach 1: So it's a very simple function, because most of the action is occurring and psychic learn random forest regression is part of psychic learn.
Capstone Coach 1: So all you need to do is call that and pass over to it, the parameters that you want to use for the random force things like the maximum depth on the.
Capstone Coach 1: number of trees estimators that you want in the forest and things like that, when you get through fitting your model then at the bottom you put the output, that you want to return in the queue.
Capstone Coach 1: In this case I just returned the model rfc and then, when it gets back to the main program this is accepted and sent over to advanced analytics which then prints out the.
Capstone Coach 1: The information that was accumulated here and the random force thread, and if you look over here at.
Capstone Coach 1: This is the regression thread it's a little bit larger because you're doing stepwise in here and notice that the information that's being sent back is more extensive.
Capstone Coach 1: So the queue here is called Q one and what you can do in a list is you can just put anything you want in that list, for example, selected, here is another list it's a list of all the variables that were selected by name.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, in the model and then, then you have the last thing model here, this is actually an object, this is the the regression object that comes back from the.
Capstone Coach 1: Old and the ordinary least squares routine down and stats model So you see here, it says model is equal to stats models dot lls.
Capstone Coach 1: And fit, so this is the the regression ma object that stats models produces so in this list of them suddenly back I have different data types, the first item selected is a list of strings.
Capstone Coach 1: And then access and lr are are the actual good data access, of course, is the encoded data and lr is another object that's coming back from linear regression.
Capstone Coach 1: And they all you know come back together and then so up here, you can see the the process, one, two and three start.
Capstone Coach 1: And one, two and three joins is essentially stop right here, so the three processes are joined and then after they stop.
Capstone Coach 1: Then I go about actually printing out the results, so this ensures that when the results are printed they're not overlay in one another and they're in some specific.
Capstone Coach 1: Specific order, other than the you know their order the time order, so the regression thread is printed first, and you can see what happens here I grab these three items from the material coming back.
Capstone Coach 1: And then I send it over to display metrics in advanced analytics and the same sort of thing happens with random forests and also with the neural network, which I didn't bother putting up here.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh just fyi if you are doing any threat in your capstone or your projects and you want you find this to be a problem, the problem being that you're you're you want to make the output look a little better see you on.
Capstone Coach 1: Stage stage at to happen after the thread so stop this is this is how you go about doing that.
Capstone Coach 1: So there are, if you looked in the week eight solution you're going to find both of these programs without threads and with broke threads, these are the Python programs that we just talked about.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you'll have a written comparison of the thread versus the non threaded code and basically what i'm saying here is sometimes sweating is essential.
Capstone Coach 1: Such in the case of a drone where you're controlling a camera simultaneously to actually controlling the drones so you want these two parts of your program to act independently of one another and seemingly to.
Capstone Coach 1: run at the same time.
Capstone Coach 1: Although threading can reduce runtime and see, this is not expected in Python unfortunately someday somebody's going to do some work to fix that.
Capstone Coach 1: We don't have right now, a compiler and Python and like you do with C and a job actually has a compiler.
Capstone Coach 1: The Java also has this problem, though, of running simultaneously and part of the part of this is because the these languages Python and Java are machine independence right so C.
Capstone Coach 1: is partially machine independent that's it the usual math math material and reading and writing and things like that.
Capstone Coach 1: appear to be machine independent, but when you get into actually reading and writing and doing things that require the computer to behave in a certain way, then it becomes specific to that particular computer now that nowadays.
Capstone Coach 1: backs and then PCs do a lot of these things, some some very similar way, so it's the programming of this is not that complicated, but it used to be that.
Capstone Coach 1: Some years ago that you had to actually know specifically how each computer handle printing and storing data on on disks and things like that.
Capstone Coach 1: So threading helps to organize a debug complex code code involving multiple analysis or models and that's basically what I wanted to illustrate there.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to start some other different topic now any questions before we move on to that let's see if i've got anything on your own on the jets.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh that's funny my side loses a drone every time he gets one that's because he's adventurism.
Capstone Coach 1: You know if you if you get a drone and you just say hey let's go fly above this freeway or all this tree or something like that yeah you're going to probably lose it but.
Capstone Coach 1: You know so that's that's kind of funny and that can be expensive, by the way these little the drone is not too expensive, but most of the other ones, you know they.
Capstone Coach 1: They get the expensive live talking about $2,000 plus or minus that kind of thing, some of them are even much more than that, the commercial ones are much more than that, but still I wouldn't want to see the drone worth a couple thousand dollars go flying off.
Capstone Coach 1: into my neighbor's yard, or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Who used oh Jim Clark used to is that you That said, you used to fly remote control planes.
Capstone Coach 1: expensive.
Capstone Coach 1: Poorly oh okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right.
Capstone Coach 1: I used to do that too, when I was much younger and the we don't we didn't have all these gadgets so I used the used to do that I said we'd like to build models and things like that it's kind of a fun thing to do.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay well let's let's go ahead and move on, that if we can't we'll be taking a break here pretty soon.
Capstone Coach 1: Now.
Capstone Coach 1: let's talk a little bit about machine learning what is it so you're in a party and somebody says what are you studying.
Capstone Coach 1: And that program that you spend so much time in and all that homework you do and and you say machine learning and then they say what what is machine learning you mean you're teaching computers that are think it's closer, but not quite.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: I, this is the best explanation of the description of machinery that i've seen and it's attributed to a guy who wrote this back in 19 I think it's 1958 or 59 so i've got a reference here coming up in just a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: But basically in the old school programming days now i'm talking about 1970s 1980s.
Capstone Coach 1: Actually, until fairly recently, this is sort of an taken as a norm for how you write a program.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, in the case of fraud detection, for example, if you wanted to write a program that was going to look at email look at your email or something like that and and and alert you when the bell looks like it's fraudulent.
Capstone Coach 1: This is basically why you might conceptualize writing the program so first you would research, the problem to figure out how many different ways Can somebody send you spam.
Capstone Coach 1: and fraudulent email, you know all the tricks that they can do and they're a bunch of them and they're more every day right.
Capstone Coach 1: So we would study of that, and then we would try to identify the characteristics of each email that Reno made it spam or fraud.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we would write a program to detect those characteristics and we would do this, one by one, and then, finally, we would evaluate the accuracy by actually running the program with real email I say, and if the accuracy is acceptable.
Capstone Coach 1: Then we don't that's another discussion as well what's acceptable, then we would accept the code and put it in the practice of running.
Capstone Coach 1: When it eventually becomes unacceptable and it will, because people, the people that do this they will find ways.
Capstone Coach 1: To get around the little rules that you have in your detection algorithm right here, and so they all start getting around your rules.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you have to go back and modify those rules, this is a never ending battle it's it's takes a long time.
Capstone Coach 1: So this requires a high level of subject matter, knowledge and constant real valuations and modification, this is the old school way.
Capstone Coach 1: And this is a prescription for full employment of programmers.
Capstone Coach 1: Another another way to look at this now, this is machine learning, I actually had a course on this, I was thinking about this.
Capstone Coach 1: When I was in graduate school I had courses on artificial intelligence and things like that, and the big thing that was the big discussion that was around language translation, which we've been doing lately with Google cloud.
Capstone Coach 1: How you do that, well, I can remember the book I could remember the discussion, exactly, and this is what we said.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, here we have to enumerate all the grammar rules for English now, we will talk about French, we will talk about Spanish they got different rules but we're English we're going to.
Capstone Coach 1: You know all of those sentence diagrams so we did in English classes, that I really didn't pay much attention to I wish I had.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, those were the grammar rules and they're very distinct for each language.
Capstone Coach 1: Very different for each language and then you combine those grammars rules with a good dictionary, and with that you can come up for rules to translate the the words that you're saying.
Capstone Coach 1: Now this type of translation is very crude, at best, because you basically looking the word up in the dictionary.
Capstone Coach 1: Without much information about the context of that word now the grammar rules will give you a limited context, like maybe in that particular sentence what the context is.
Capstone Coach 1: But usually they would not go back and say, well, that was talked about over here the preceding paragraph.
Capstone Coach 1: And really it relates to that information, and we should combine that to get a better understanding of what's being said here didn't do that.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, this type of translation was not very good, but for somebody that didn't understand the language at all, it wasn't all trade was acceptable, and you know it could be used.
Capstone Coach 1: We could find ways, maybe to go back and modify those rules, and we would offensively see that certain types of translations were very bad and we would maybe go back and somehow improve this in some way.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, thank goodness, this is no longer used the, but this is what we did back in the 80s and so forth, is that we sort of looked at things and then bit pieces little bitty problems and then we're programs to to get around them.
Capstone Coach 1: So, along comes machine language machine learning, excuse me now machine learning.
Capstone Coach 1: It just got kicked off and approximately the year 2000 but it's really gotten kicked off, more recently, like in the last five years.
Capstone Coach 1: This is good news and bad news The good news is this machine learning business is really starting to work very, very well and it's giving us a complete new chance at other opportunities.
Capstone Coach 1: The bad news is that the software that is as we're they're working on to have make this happen is changing so rapidly.
Capstone Coach 1: so fast, and so, if you're the programmer you almost have to on a daily basis or weekly basis.
Capstone Coach 1: get an update on okay So what did we do there and somebody changed the program you know what happened that's what happened to me today, by the way, that's why my computer went itself is because I was working on some examples for tensorflow and charisse and it seems that.
Capstone Coach 1: Somebody saying something that tensorflow and.
Capstone Coach 1: Anyway, it's so it's a mess it's really a mess and then I went online to figure out well okay it's anybody else reported with earlier is a whole string.
Capstone Coach 1: of conversations about this problem and other problems as well, and there are a ton there's an army of people working on it, so the good news is, we will get over this eventually The bad news is.
Capstone Coach 1: We will probably continue to see this sort of thing happened to us for the for some years to come, because it's it's a fairly sophisticated.
Capstone Coach 1: complex system.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so machine learning what's different well the the Code, the algorithm the I mean sorry the flow chart looks very similar.
Capstone Coach 1: Except what's happening in the middle, so we start by researching the problem, but when we research, the problem what we're going to be looking for here is data.
Capstone Coach 1: And we're going to be looking for information that will allow us to tailor the machine learning algorithms that we commonly used.
Capstone Coach 1: To set up this program so instead of writing the unique set of rules which various for every problem you're working on.
Capstone Coach 1: For example, in the translation case, my goodness, you have to have rules for each differently each language and those rules would be different right.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, if you take the machine learning approach the you don't need to do that you're using an algorithm that is going to basically compare.
Capstone Coach 1: The written language or the spoken language to the answer, what does it mean and so that brings in the case of languages, you have a corpus where.
Capstone Coach 1: Somebody is actually sat down and read the entire thing and prepared a translation, and you know.
Capstone Coach 1: that's that's the legwork that goes on, but then once that happens, we could send that data, which would be a dictionary and the corpus into an algorithm.
Capstone Coach 1: That will then teach the computer how to recognize different patterns of words and how to translate them now, this has got to be really very, very good.
Capstone Coach 1: If and the last five years and that's largely because of tensorflow and charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: The, what are the algorithms here well Stat 656 last summer we talked about most of these so not most of i'd say at least half of them.
Capstone Coach 1: The ones that are that are often use and those would be things like logistic regression for classification.
Capstone Coach 1: neural networks for classification, especially and also random for us those three those are the big three if you're talking about.
Capstone Coach 1: machine learning algorithms that are supervised, that is, you have a target, and you can then evaluate your performance in the algorithm of relative to whatever that target is.
Capstone Coach 1: So with that algorithm that and with some data we could get then produce a super program basically that will allow us to translate the words recognize spam.
Capstone Coach 1: drive your car, drive a drone whatever you want to do, and then you could look at that and and improve that by a by Bailey gathering additional data and improving the quality of that data.
Capstone Coach 1: So here's the end, the case of language what happens here is that we get a corpus, which is a large body of of articles or books are journal.
Capstone Coach 1: You know postings and that sort of thing that are in one language, and then we translate them to another language.
Capstone Coach 1: And we marry that with the dictionary for most of the words in the language and with the dictionary.
Capstone Coach 1: And with the actual translations, we can send that into a machine learning algorithms such as it was just logistic regression.
Capstone Coach 1: And we can then decide what each one of those words or phrases actually means we have, in the case of machine learning, they also use pattern recognition things like clustering analysis and.
Capstone Coach 1: A few others like so as successful as it says forget the name of it.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's basically in a nutshell, what machine learning is about machine learning is trey is basically a new concept that's been.
Capstone Coach 1: exploding over the last five to 10 years, especially exploding that allows the computer to be programming itself essentially programming itself.
Capstone Coach 1: To make certain decisions or recognize certain patterns, based upon what it's seen before, and so this doesn't require huge amounts of programming time.
Capstone Coach 1: Every pattern that we have added recognition problem that we have is not unique it makes a few then we see a pattern recognition problems as just general class of problems that can be solved using these algorithms.
Capstone Coach 1: Now i'd love to see if i've got another slide here on this so here is the 1959 quote, that is the basis for some of this by author Samuel, and this was.
Capstone Coach 1: posted in the IBM Journal of research said machine learning is a field of study that gives computers, the ability to learn, without being explicitly programmed.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's what I was trying to say there is that all of the time that's normally required to come up with the specific rules for a specific pattern recognition problem we don't do that anymore.
Capstone Coach 1: Now we use general pattern recognition software to do this for us and so much faster, more accurate more formidable way to do this for solve this problem.
Capstone Coach 1: Now his his article, by the way, was programming a computer how to play chess are not just checkers that today play you know writing a program to play checkers would be trivial.
Capstone Coach 1: be a freshman's assignment in the first course and programming, but that was big deal back and 59 right.
Capstone Coach 1: And then here's another fellow who wrote a machine learning book in 1997 which seems like yesterday, but in reality that's over 20 years ago I computer program is said to learn from some experience he.
Capstone Coach 1: Now he is basically an object with information and with respect to some tasks some pattern recognition task.
Capstone Coach 1: And some performance measure P performance measure many and how many miss classifications, for example, that you might might have from the computer if the performance on this task, as measured by this value P misclassification.
Capstone Coach 1: The the algorithm improves with experience that's called machine learning so.
Capstone Coach 1: And, of course, if you have something like a neural network that's basically what you're trying to do there is yeah you gather more and more data you re train the network to recognize to to make the pattern recognition task and reduce the misclassification rate as you do so.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, now I think what i'd like to do here is, this is a good place to just take a stretch and get something to drink i'm going to get up here for about five or 10 minutes i'd get something to drink and i'll be right back okay.
Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: I can't see anyone right now everybody's hiding.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm.
Karen Fireman: Not back yet.
Capstone Coach 1: What is that Karen or was.
Karen Fireman: It is it.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, good good.
Capstone Coach 1: I was hoping somebody would.
Capstone Coach 1: would confirm that, yes, we're still.
Jim Clark: walking around my desk.
Karen Fireman: yeah we're still walking around.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay that's okay.
Capstone Coach 1: that's the nice thing about the virtual classes, you can just get up and get a glass of water in time, you want to.
Karen Fireman: yeah well I just I just grabbed my phone took a walk outside way from my house I figured i'd zoom it.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Well it's all recorded that's Another good thing you don't.
Capstone Coach 1: have to worry about this.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay let's get back i'm gonna get back to what I was chatting about.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, there we go all right oops let me go back up here a little bit.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay well huh.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, oh yeah there, they are little arrows on my screen okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, some people have thought about this and they're continuing to think about it, and they were saying well, if you look at the algorithms that we currently use, we can classify them.
Capstone Coach 1: In three different dimensions in three different ways, and I saw this particular classification, I thought well this kind of makes sense, based upon what i've heard.
Capstone Coach 1: And so i'm going to use it and it'll probably change in another year.
Capstone Coach 1: We get more refined.
Capstone Coach 1: One characteristic of all of these algorithms is the extent to which there's a target or not.
Capstone Coach 1: And so we call this supervised versus unsupervised modeling.
Capstone Coach 1: And so that's one aspect of these algorithms that normally you look for is that is this a supervised or unsupervised algorithm.
Capstone Coach 1: We also have something called semi supervised and reinforced learning so there's a there's kind of a rainbow of options here all the way from heavy handed supervision to not unsupervised.
Capstone Coach 1: Now I gave example of a supervision would be logistic regression.
Capstone Coach 1: regression analysis in general, you have to have a target.
Capstone Coach 1: As a supervisor would be things like cluster analysis and just general pattern recognition and there's a whole host of problems that that fall into that category where you have a set of data.
Capstone Coach 1: At you don't really have one target that you're trying to forecast what you're trying to do is to organize the information you have into categories are clusters.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the other dimension, the second dimension for these algorithms is learning, whether it is bachelor name or online is the jargon that's used.
Capstone Coach 1: Batch learning, I remember, I did this with a company in Georgia yeah, and so we had to build a computer network, a neural network to forecast some accounting principles some accounting.
Capstone Coach 1: operations.
Capstone Coach 1: So we just decided that well what we will do is, we will develop a net neural network, and we will update that neural network once a month.
Capstone Coach 1: That means, then we basically collect every at the end of every month we collect a bunch of data, and then we rerun the entire network retrain the entire network once a month, it took about six seven hours to run that we could grow it overnight.
Capstone Coach 1: On the other hand, there are operations that are online where the data is coming in real time and the algorithm permits it or is adjusted in some way that it will allow for updates automatic updates as the data arrives in the computer and there are.
Capstone Coach 1: Several operations where this is good thing to do, if you are, for example, running a delivery service you'd kind of like to know.
Capstone Coach 1: How you're doing over the weekend, but before the weekend is over, just to make sure that you're meeting all your customer needs so that would be an online update.
Capstone Coach 1: For your model that would be happening real time, so you have a one thing has become kind of popular because of this idea of online updating is what do they call this thing the.
Capstone Coach 1: Not the.
Capstone Coach 1: benchmark, but the.
Capstone Coach 1: Well it's sort of like driving a car, where you have you know you have update Oh, you have a screen a computer screen that comes up and and just shows you real time.
Capstone Coach 1: How you how many orders you've just had in the last hour and how do you expect the next hour and so forth, and so on and so, then you adjust your staffing and your actions and so forth, and based upon whatever you know, whatever you're saying there.
Capstone Coach 1: So that update aim is it, whether it's instantaneous or online versus every once in a while batch that depends on the application, but.
Capstone Coach 1: Whatever your needs are and really drives you towards a particular type of algorithm as some of the algorithms that are really good for up online.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, real time updating regression analysis can actually be done that way.
Capstone Coach 1: You can fit a regression model, to a large batch of data and then you can just update that model on a case by case basis, data comes in.
Capstone Coach 1: You can do a real time update on that model very quickly there's some there's some math on that there's some you know people have worked on this for a while, but.
Capstone Coach 1: it's very easy to do neural networks are also easy to update based upon you know you don't have to retrain you don't have to take all of the data and train the network again if you have a network that's already been trained.
Capstone Coach 1: And now you get some new data, all you need to do is run that new data through the network and update the the the training based upon this new data.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's the second dimension, the third dimension is modeling and that that gets into a the, this is the way they talk about it modeling and they talk about instant based instance based versus model based learning.
Capstone Coach 1: This was a this was a thing, long before we talked about machine learning a thing for statisticians statisticians we used to say, we would we would often ask the question in the context of regression analysis.
Capstone Coach 1: what's more important, making a forecast for an instance of the future, making a forecast or understanding the relationships of the variables are the factors that go into making that forecast.
Capstone Coach 1: Well instance based modeling refers to as an application, where you want you're really concerned about making a single forecast.
Capstone Coach 1: an instance forecasts and with that model, so you might, for example, want to forecast the temperature tomorrow.
Capstone Coach 1: Or the stock market how much is going to change tomorrow that would be an instance base forecast and so you'd want to use a certain type of model that will let you.
Capstone Coach 1: make a forecast and do evaluate the quality that forecast on a case by case basis.
Capstone Coach 1: On the other hand, there are lots of cases where lots of studies, where you're not really you don't really care so much about what the temperature tomorrow is as what is the driving the climate change in a particular area because you're concerned about.
Capstone Coach 1: Whether or not this is going to be a very severe winter or severe storms summer and things like that, so the noaa the the folks who make the weather forecasts come out with a.
Capstone Coach 1: hurricane season forecast and so they make that forecast based upon using model based learning they're not going to predict.
Capstone Coach 1: The you know whether there's going to be a hurricane tomorrow or how many exactly hurricanes, are going to be in the season.
Capstone Coach 1: They will look at the factors that go into driving the hurricanes to arise in the Atlantic, with a Pacific.
Capstone Coach 1: And then they will make a forecast that says well these factors are moving in this direction, therefore, we think there's going to be more or less.
Capstone Coach 1: And usually the discussions around El Nino you know the the temperature of the tie of the currents in the Pacific and also in the Atlantic that.
Capstone Coach 1: that are associated with hurricanes, and so they look at those sort of factors and make their long term forecast so that.
Capstone Coach 1: So I, like the other way of just talking about it, which is what's more important to you a single forecast.
Capstone Coach 1: or understanding the variables that are driving the forecast that's the way I think of this anyway.
Capstone Coach 1: And some things like regression can be used for both situations, I mean you can use stepwise regression.
Capstone Coach 1: to select to identify the factors that are important in your regression model that would be model based learning.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you could also use the regression equation to forecast this specific instance or case or time and that will be the instance space forecasting like that.
Capstone Coach 1: So model based learning gets to those algorithms that are used for variable selection and that would be regression, is a good one, their decision trees and random forests.
Capstone Coach 1: have ways in which they can identify the most important factors or attributes and then the tree neural networks it's a little more difficult to identify, to use a neural network for model based learning.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay here's some examples so supervised linear logistic grew Of course these the number one there that looks like 656 and last summer.
Capstone Coach 1: linear logistic regression models decision trees random forest know those are all examples of supervised learning models.
Capstone Coach 1: On the supervisor models which we are getting another classes are be things like clustering K means clustering hierarchical clustering expectation maximisation.
Capstone Coach 1: visualization and dimensionality reduction which we're going to see in this class actually we're going to talk about image analysis.
Capstone Coach 1: voice analysis audio analysis and speech, and you know text analysis Those are all clustering algorithm have lots of form of unsupervised algorithms and principal components analysis and locally linear embedding rules association rules will swell.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay number three the supervised.
Capstone Coach 1: supervised models are based on train data with only part of the training data semi supervised, excuse me, semi supervised models are those so basically what you do, there is, you have data that is some of it has.
Capstone Coach 1: Information they call it the label the target values exists for part of the data, but not all, so you may have data, where the y value or the target value is.
Capstone Coach 1: You have that recorded for 20 or 30% of the data and the other 80 or 90% of the data don't have that information that's called semi supervised.
Capstone Coach 1: And so what happens there is you'll use the 20 or 30% where you do have the y value the target the io to predict what the other observation should have.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you'll update this is sort of an intuitive sort sort of a thing that goes on until you get the good match between what you're observing and the 30% and what you think should observe, of the other 7080 90%.
Capstone Coach 1: and reinforce learning is an algorithm where you have rewards and penalties and, over time, your performance or your decisions, improve.
Capstone Coach 1: Based upon these war rewards and penalties now a good example of that are algorithms that are developed to play games chess or checkers go those kinds of things they have a reward penalty system.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, if you make a certain type of mood move move you'll get a plus reward and if you make a different kind of move you'll make a negative reward and overtime, then this be this.
Capstone Coach 1: reward and tivoli approach will Bruce can resolve and the improvement and the behavior of the decision behavior of the of the algorithm.
Capstone Coach 1: Batch an online learning we mentioned this batch does not retain the model does not in batches we don't retrain the model frequently instead it's updated.
Capstone Coach 1: once a month or once a year, or something like that, basically, that an online we update the model incrementally usually as the data arrives.
Capstone Coach 1: Of course instance and model based, this is the difference here is the some algorithms huge you want to make a particular forecast.
Capstone Coach 1: You want you evaluate the result of that forecast or the quality of that forecasts and others it's not the forecast it's so important it's what's understanding what's driving the podcast that you want to know.
Capstone Coach 1: Now my emerging machine learning algorithms the main challenges and these algorithms is false into several categories number one is.
Capstone Coach 1: Data quality and here we're talking to God i'm sorry data quantity and here we're talking about the rare event problems so.
Capstone Coach 1: You have maybe you have a lot of data or you think you have a lot of data, when in fact you don't because the thing that you're trying to analyze or predict or anticipate.
Capstone Coach 1: is a rare that occurs it occurs in less than 10% of the data and with when you have a rare event problem is going to be challenging.
Capstone Coach 1: At best, regardless of how much your you have, of the other type of data, you really need more as much as you can have the event that you're trying to work on.
Capstone Coach 1: The second thing that we worry about is data quality, and by that we mean missing values outliers.
Capstone Coach 1: Missing variables missing attributes, this is a big one actually so it wouldn't be uncommon for somebody to have let's say 150 columns right.
Capstone Coach 1: 150 calls odd, which only half a dozen are really are really valuable and so that's actually a worse problem because.
Capstone Coach 1: You you can't see those six columns those important attributes because of the presence of all these others that are creating basically down noise and your data and the algorithms.
Capstone Coach 1: Generally speaking, have a problem, trying to separate the wheat from the chaff, trying to find the six that are important versus the other under 200 that are not.
Capstone Coach 1: irrelevant features that's what i'm talking about there is that that challenging the challenging thing here is feature selection or extraction.
Capstone Coach 1: And and let in regression analysis, we have stepwise but in other things, the features are not actually feature selection is not part of the algorithm neural network, for example.
Capstone Coach 1: You have difficulty trying to decide what you're going to keep them what you're not random forest, you can look at what.
Capstone Coach 1: variables we're used to just to define the branches and the tree and whether they were used very often and use that then to say something about how important they are.
Capstone Coach 1: Over and understanding the data, this is a continuous problem, particularly with something like a neural network or random forest.
Capstone Coach 1: And for a neural network and random forest, we can make those algorithms as large as we want, we can make the trees as big as we want.
Capstone Coach 1: We can add more trees to the forest and the neural network we can add more perceptive ron's to the network and all of that helps will ultimately this to overfitting the data.
Capstone Coach 1: With a neural network is most of the times, it is possible to get the misclassification error rate on the training data down to zero Okay, the words you can fit the training do perfectly with the neural network random forest also has that that characteristic.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, when you go then to actually validate that network, using a different set of data, you may then find that it doesn't work very well at all, so this is why a validation cross validation is so important number five is because of the issue of overfitting the data basically.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Now we switch from machine learning to deep learning.
Capstone Coach 1: Is there a difference between machine learning and deep learning.
Capstone Coach 1: That actually bothered me for a long time.
Capstone Coach 1: I like people are talking about deep learning what it, how is that different from machine learning.
Capstone Coach 1: How is machine learning different from data mining, for example.
Capstone Coach 1: database mined, by the way, is that you know these are things that I worry about these are things that keep me awake at night.
Capstone Coach 1: data mining and how is that okay so data mining is about basically what are looking at what information can I get from the state, what can I learn from this data.
Capstone Coach 1: What kind of techniques can I use there, and these it overlaps with machine learning and, in the sense that machine learning is also data driven.
Capstone Coach 1: But machinery is also interested in pattern recognition specifically as the we've been talking about it here if I want to.
Capstone Coach 1: do some machine learning at the heart of that is a algorithm and ml algorithm which is basically some sort of pattern recognition algorithm.
Capstone Coach 1: That is somewhat generic it's useful for many different contexts, not just for our data, but for other data types of data as well.
Capstone Coach 1: And so it's not hard to find examples where maybe this algorithm was used successfully on problems similar to ours machine learning now data mining is really the data part of it, and that is how do I summarize my data, how do I represent it, how do I.
Capstone Coach 1: use it to best work with some particular algorithm machine learning algorithm.
Capstone Coach 1: Now deep learning Hello okay when did deep learning start to get the on the.
Capstone Coach 1: On in our discussion well, so you hear that you hear now the culprits here are usually the software people right, so the software people generally dry or language and this area.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's because they have a new version coming out and they want to sell that new version, so they come up with clever ways.
Capstone Coach 1: To describe why this new version is needed, and how is it different from the old version right so that's part of where deep learning and machine learning came from it came from the software.
Capstone Coach 1: Sales people and marketing people actually that come up with these things, so I buy in the case of deep learning, though I think we could actually point to a specific point in time and a specific thing and associate that with deep learning, and that is November 2015.
Capstone Coach 1: that's when we got deep learning November 2015 because deep learning essentially is is tensorflow and care us basically.
Capstone Coach 1: Deep learning is the using this a particular type of machine learning that uses makes extensive use of neural networks.
Capstone Coach 1: This was not possible, before tensorflow and careless yes we taught the neural networks, and you have seen neural networks on have some understanding of what those are about.
Capstone Coach 1: And psychic learn, for example, has neural networks built into it or advanced analytics as some routines in there that lets you actually put a pro.
Capstone Coach 1: publish or present the information that you get back from a neural network that's fitted by you psychic learn but tensorflow and charisse are a little different because.
Capstone Coach 1: we're talking we're not talking about small that works here we're talking about really big ones really big ones that are easy to build quick to build and that, ultimately, will allow you to perfectly forecasts, the training data.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, if the training data is good enough, and you have a perfect forecast for that training data, then it's probably going to be almost perfect forecast for the validation data as well.
Capstone Coach 1: So there is that problem of overfitting here but think about it, if you're talking about machine and, by the way this deep learning businesses primarily being applied to.
Capstone Coach 1: Language translation image translation and a few other things that have to do with pattern recognition.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, so this deep learning businesses about the ultimate in in trying to get to the ultimate and pattern recognition.
Capstone Coach 1: Where you the computer is very good at language very good at recognizing you when you come in the door, the images.
Capstone Coach 1: And so we're going to look at some programs here, where the the computer is being programmed to recognize written numbers you write down the number right.
Capstone Coach 1: So where would there be used well in analyzing checks right the bank it's the bank skip thousands of checks every day.
Capstone Coach 1: And now, they want to check your signature and check the amount that's on there and deposit and so forth, so on and that's all handwritten information.
Capstone Coach 1: Now they can use deep learning to actually review those checks automatically at very high rates of speed and do so with a very high level of precision and and the process.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you have all sorts of image recognition things that that spans the spectrum, all the way from you know I computer looking at, who is getting on the bus, who is getting coming into the building.
Capstone Coach 1: Who is sitting in the in the baseball stand the computer can scan those images and actually make some judgment about the people that it's looking at.
Capstone Coach 1: So it's the computer can be programmed to identify people and they will see an image of a person, and then you know basically scour the Internet looking for that person to see who they are, or they may have a database that allows them to do that something like a driver's license database.
Capstone Coach 1: Then they also have the ability to actually look at the expression of a person's face to see whether that person is anxious happy sad distraught cetera et cetera.
Capstone Coach 1: So this is pretty amazing to me it's pretty amazing that they can do that, but all of these types of jobs are essentially an exercise and pattern recognition.
Capstone Coach 1: So they they they look at a photo and they look at the pattern in that photo and then based upon that photo that pattern that computer, then, can make a certain judgment, one of the files we're going to look at is thousands and thousands and thousands of.
Capstone Coach 1: X rays long X Ray is.
Capstone Coach 1: About half of which the people have lung cancer.
Capstone Coach 1: And so we're going to be looking at how do you program a computer to recognize automatically by looking at the X Ray.
Capstone Coach 1: Whether that person does or doesn't have a breathing process some some problem with their lungs.
Capstone Coach 1: This is very good stuff and that technology is is here today and it's growing this you know i'm sure that if you've been to the hospital lately lately, you know about these things that you know they take pictures and they do things like that, but so it's kind of a big deal.
Capstone Coach 1: that's part of the reason I guess in drones is because drones have the ability to take three dimensional images.
Capstone Coach 1: And those three dimensional images, then, can be processed and used to define things like the bridge is the bridge structure the bridge deteriorating more rapidly than the engineers think or not so fast.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're lucky talking about oil wells and oil rigs a drone can take pictures of the structure and then create a three dimensional model from those pictures.
Capstone Coach 1: That allow the engineers to make precise measurements on the structural changes that are going on in in that system, and from that, then they could identify potentially identify problems much earlier than they would otherwise.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so let's go back to summer of 2020 last year.
Capstone Coach 1: It seems like yesterday or not I don't know, for me it seems like yesterday.
Capstone Coach 1: Because so much has happened since then, but.
Capstone Coach 1: We talked about neural networks briefly and we're going to go back to that now, so this is a feed forward neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: More specifically, this is a single layer one hidden layer neural network, so your typical neural network starts with a layer of inputs, in this case, I have four different.
Capstone Coach 1: numbers that are coming in features or attributes that are sending data into the network, in reality, we would not have four we would probably have 4000.
Capstone Coach 1: Or, more of these inputs that are coming in, if you're talking about image recognition these inputs or pixels and even some of the most plane.
Capstone Coach 1: drones and cameras smart cameras, the images that they capture are millions of pixels in the in the neighborhood of something like 12 million pixels so.
Capstone Coach 1: Those pixels incidentally are numbers that go from zero to 256 255 excuse me.
Capstone Coach 1: numbers that go from zero to 255 and there are three layers of those numbers red blue and green right, so if you're talking about colors.
Capstone Coach 1: Then the number of pixels in a single image is let's say 10 million times three, in other words about 30 million pixels and each one of those pixels is another between zero and 255, can you imagine so.
Capstone Coach 1: We are going to use neural network to decide what said that picture.
Capstone Coach 1: That means the number of inputs on this input layer is not for it's more like 40 million.
Capstone Coach 1: orland more even more than that there are systems where you have much higher resolution and nowadays is they have night vision.
Capstone Coach 1: cameras heat sensing cameras, as well as the ordinarily photo cameras.
Capstone Coach 1: And those image to this night vision cameras are very, very important now, because it allows drones and other things to see in the key in the situations where humans can't.
Capstone Coach 1: So night, since a camera can make out an image much better than a human being, could possibly imagined doing, but in order to deal with that we're going to have to figure out a way.
Capstone Coach 1: to handle millions of inputs in this neural network and then that is actually what's done is that the these millions of pixels are are processed and a huge your neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: So the each pixel that normally goes to the next next layer, which is the the hidden layer it's called the hidden layer and there could be several hidden layers now, in this case we just have one.
Capstone Coach 1: Hidden layer and there are only three precept upon precept crohn's or some people call them neurons so sure smaller word three neurons.
Capstone Coach 1: And each input is tied to each one of these neurons in the hidden layer now that's the deed usually that's the default connection in the case of images, where you have millions of pixels we may not do it this way, that will be done, where maybe.
Capstone Coach 1: The Greens go over here the reds go there, you know they have the three layers right so each layer might might have its own neural network that's processed in some way.
Capstone Coach 1: And then finally on the right hand side is the output and this could be just two neurons like we have here we have a yes, no situation.
Capstone Coach 1: Is this a yes decision or no decision is this objects red or blue or green or what have you yes or no, so these the output layer is ordinarily fairly simple.
Capstone Coach 1: Often the output layer will be a probability, and so, if you have two outputs the sum of why one and why to those two number will be one, so why one will be the probability of a yes and why to be the probability if I know something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: In the case of multi Novo, where you have you're trying to recognize one of 10 numbers so you're looking at each written number and you decided is a 012 or three there'll be 10 possible assumptions, so the target there Dan has 10.
Capstone Coach 1: possibilities, and so the network that is going to calculate 10 probabilities the probability of a zero or one or two or three.
Capstone Coach 1: If you add up those probabilities you'll always get one and that's a requirement for something like and probability is they all Sunday one and they all of them will be numbers between zero and one.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay i've been using preceptor on a neuron and i'm going to.
Capstone Coach 1: refresh your memory here a little bit.
Capstone Coach 1: These computationally mathematically are actually fairly complicated they're practically fairly complex right.
Capstone Coach 1: So this is just a single neuron and then hidden layer and in this example, I have three inputs that are coming in.
Capstone Coach 1: So what actually happens in the calculations of the end the network in the neural network is that each of the three inputs is multiplied times await.
Capstone Coach 1: And then they are added together to form Z here, which is called the potential, you can see the calculation down the bottom, it looks like ordinary regression equation, and it is.
Capstone Coach 1: So you take each of the inputs times the coefficient add them together and you add a fudge factor, called the bias.
Capstone Coach 1: or some people would say you intercept because it's almost like calculating a regular simple linear equation regression equation right So if you have a neural network with with one hidden layer
Capstone Coach 1: And all they're doing is making this calculation guess what that will network will behave like a linear regression model, in fact.
Capstone Coach 1: If you do it correctly, if there's no mistakes in the whole process the neural network solution will look exactly like the linear regression equation that you could have fitted from the from the get go.
Capstone Coach 1: The only thing that makes this different from linear regression is the activation that you see here at the end.
Capstone Coach 1: So this function G is called the activation function and what happens is.
Capstone Coach 1: The linear combination of the inputs is given to a special function that produces that usually is designed to produce scale, the number.
Capstone Coach 1: which can resemble a probability it's a number between zero and one GMC is always between zero and one and, in some cases.
Capstone Coach 1: and other cases, it might be minus one dependent upon one G is you know you get a basically you're going to get a scaled output here and it'll be.
Capstone Coach 1: it'll have certain characteristics which are going to be known.
Capstone Coach 1: And if you want, you could have a second hidden layer and a third, you can have multiple hidden layers So the first hidden layer looks like this, where the inputs are going to.
Capstone Coach 1: linear waiting of arrangement here, and then they get manipulated re scaled by an activation function and sent over to well and this diagram is going to send it to some output to the.
Capstone Coach 1: prediction, but they could just as equally send this over to another neuron another hidden layer which makes the same kind of calculations they'll have different weights.
Capstone Coach 1: And may have a different activation function, but in the end you're basically going to get a series of numbers that unfold, as you go through this neural network until you get to the output.
Capstone Coach 1: window the output that neuron here at the at the end, so this is our neural network is set up, it can be very complicated dependent upon how many hidden layers you have how many inputs, you have and the type of activation functions that you decide to use here.
Capstone Coach 1: Now.
Capstone Coach 1: tensorflow and CARA said figured out.
Kilani, Shadi: How to get them say, do not.
Kilani, Shadi: This is kalani I just have a question.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, just admitted you your voice is a little weird on me.
Kilani, Shadi: I get a lot.
Kilani, Shadi: Can you hear me.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, better better.
Okay.
Kilani, Shadi: So I was just curious when you mentioned that you only have one hidden layer it should behave more like a linear regression right.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, it depends on the PDF if you have if the activation function is nothing.
Capstone Coach 1: GMC is equal to see if you don't really have an activation function here, it will it will exactly resemble a regression equation.
Kilani, Shadi: So, in order for us to make it better, we should think about more hidden layers or am I just.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, you the activation from your debt, you know, instead of don't use what's it's called linear activation a linear activation means GMC is equal to zero.
Capstone Coach 1: So, in other words do this what you see on the bottom is the only calculation that's going on right and then that's, then what you see down here for Z that's what gets passed out if that's what you're doing just linear combinations like this that's linear regression.
Capstone Coach 1: So it has to do with that activation function if it's a linear activation you're going to get linear regression.
Capstone Coach 1: But normally the activation function is something like tangent tangent logistic sigmoid curve it's something it's a curve of some sort of nonlinear function and so that changes the picture totally.
Kilani, Shadi: Thank you.
Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: But one one thing you can't do, I wonder, knowing this it's an easy way to test your your model is to say Okay, let me flip all the activation functions to linear and see what I yet.
Capstone Coach 1: Compared to bid linear regression, you should get a match.
Capstone Coach 1: You know the the forecasts and the predictions should be the same.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, let's keep on going now we're getting ready to get interactive we're going to do some programming tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Thank you for the question I was beginning to wonder if somebody way if anybody was, I can see, on my screen over here.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah there's jemison posting okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, good show.
Capstone Coach 1: And a.
Capstone Coach 1: lot of people here tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Kilani, Shadi: I ask another question, Dr Jones I just.
Kilani, Shadi: don't want that, for the hidden layer I saw that you had three neurons.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, let me back up just a second sorry I had what V1 or.
Capstone Coach 1: hang on, let me back up.
Kilani, Shadi: So w one w w three that.
Capstone Coach 1: uh huh.
Kilani, Shadi: Three neurons right.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah these are weights yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm just using the notation, this is just a standard, this is a sort of notation that many people use, but you know you could some people use the or a beta beta one beta two beta three you know I kind of thing.
Kilani, Shadi: I guess I don't know if that's the right place to ask this question but.
Kilani, Shadi: I saw that we had inputs right, and then they go into a hidden layer that has three neutrons two to three, how do we decide on the number of the weights.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh Okay, so this is the original picture right.
Capstone Coach 1: So there are, this is what you're talking about is how do you tune the network and tuning involves a couple of.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, when you work in a decision tree.
Capstone Coach 1: First question how big how tall is the tree what's the maximum depth right because you know the maximum depth is a bigger you make that the more you're you're the better your forecast for the training data.
Capstone Coach 1: But, also, the higher the potential for overfitting the data with a neural network, basically, as you add more and more preceptor ons and more hidden layers.
Capstone Coach 1: You it's the equivalent of making the tree bigger so you'll get closer and closer to that perfect fit of the training data and maybe to close now if you're talking about image recognition or language recognition, which is really where these things are very popular.
Capstone Coach 1: it's not such a big deal, you know what you're interested in is whether we can recognize the pattern.
Capstone Coach 1: Successfully will misclassification error rate, so to speak, but overfitting overfitting is is not the same concept.
Capstone Coach 1: So if I if I fit the training data perfectly I would be concerned about the validation data but i'm Okay, if I get the training did it perfectly and the validation data almost perfectly that might not be such a bad situation.
Capstone Coach 1: You know so it's it's a little different game, I think, with image recognition and voice recognition, also an image wrecking something like the image you don't have to get a perfect fit you don't have to get.
Capstone Coach 1: Every pixel.
Capstone Coach 1: described accurately you're looking for the the overall pattern based upon the pattern, or what do I seen here what is what is it what is this message is coming through so a little different.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So when I when we did 656 we went through this rather honestly pretty quickly like a week a couple days, maybe I don't know and part of that is because no networks are not very useful when it comes to.
Capstone Coach 1: Making the traditional supervised forecast, so if i'm trying to forecast the weather, tomorrow the temperature tomorrow the stock market tomorrow things like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Things like random forest trees and and logistic regression tend to be more adaptable, we can see what the variables are doing.
Capstone Coach 1: We can evaluate the quality of the forecast, we can run validation fairly easily we can do variable selection and thing you know, there are all sorts of things that we can do in that context.
Capstone Coach 1: But where neural networks now comes into play, is when you're talking about problems that are basically pure pattern recognition problems.
Capstone Coach 1: they're really doing what you do as a human being and your brain your eyes, you can you can look at a pattern and say oh that's Johnny or that's channel or that's.
Capstone Coach 1: You know that's rain, or whatever you can make your your brain is able to process images and make decisions very rapidly.
Capstone Coach 1: And this idea of that neural network is, to some degree modeled after the that principle is that we can build a.
Capstone Coach 1: box that can mimic some of the behavior that we already are that we are born with basically.
Capstone Coach 1: And in fact I mean this is a scary scary thing about it, the computer things and the technology is getting so good.
Capstone Coach 1: That it's not hard to imagine computers doing these sorts of things and better that humans, and I think the most obvious that this is.
Capstone Coach 1: Where you start hanging cameras on computers that are night vision heat sensing and I are able to detect radiation and other things that we can't assume it's.
Capstone Coach 1: Even approach, then you're going you're looking at a machine that has capabilities way beyond what we would expect to have right, we can still probably run rings around them when it comes to.
Capstone Coach 1: playing games and vision and our vision but.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah just general vision in general that when it comes to specific tasks that relate to images and things like that, particularly in hard to see situations.
Capstone Coach 1: Where i'm afraid we're going to be outclassed really quick very quickly and that's why I think the autonomous autonomous cars self driving cars.
Capstone Coach 1: are going to become a reality, faster than that we might think, because they can hang all kinds of sensors of those cars that things they can cars can see things and do things that we can't we can't imagine doing ourselves, we couldn't do a circle so easily I don't like driving at night.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah I my night vision is not very good So if I have a car that can drive at night and see better than me I think i'm going to be happy to to have that car.
Capstone Coach 1: But, and maybe someday who knows.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay let's go move on a little bit that so we're going to go to deep learning as opposed to machine learning.
Capstone Coach 1: So, essentially the term deep learning learning is commonly used to refer to machine learning using very large neural networks very large So these are neural networks that are designed to recognize images audio video and language, which is a huge processing problem.
Capstone Coach 1: This was not really practical until November of 2015 Google released for the general public it's neural network model and November of 2015 This is where the term deep learning came from, so people who are using this model.
Capstone Coach 1: recognize that it had the ability to process huge amounts of data, whereas the algorithms we previously used with psychic learn.
Capstone Coach 1: were limited and so neural networks were getting a short play not very much at all, so this happened in 2015 that's only what six years ago, something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: And so it's no wonder that you don't see a lot of books on the shelf you don't see a lot of people talking about it well, the people who are doing working on these kind of problems yeah they're talking about it but.
Capstone Coach 1: For a lot of us we don't we don't worry about these things, yet so we don't talk about but.
Capstone Coach 1: it's going to become more and more common and it's going to improve I think over the next five years that the progress they've made in the last five years.
Capstone Coach 1: will be astounding over the next five, I think the general neural network model is is now labeled tensorflow, it is the basis for the.
Capstone Coach 1: The Google cloud, you know all of those api's we saw Google cloud there were those were actually most of those were built using tensorflow.
Capstone Coach 1: Using the Google neural network model so are the language translation things the image recognition we didn't get more that for an image, but it's there.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the audio you know, analysis and translations and such of the text that's all being driven by the 10th floor flow neural network model.
Capstone Coach 1: In fact, when you looked at the API API on most of these things, for example, the translation API you'll notice that they have two options in that translation.
Capstone Coach 1: The okay translation and the really good customized translation.
Capstone Coach 1: The they charge differently right, so if you're using the default okay transmitting translation.
Capstone Coach 1: What happens there is, you are actually using a neural network model that they developed so somebody developed, some time ago for that particular problems so, for example, I translate the English and Spanish frequently and vice versa okay.
Capstone Coach 1: And it used to be before November of 2015 if I translate it in English and the Spanish, it was a joke I would never use it, I can read enough Spanish to know that okay they're going to laugh at that, and they did.
Capstone Coach 1: Since 2015 though the translations have got so good that now, with certain languages.
Capstone Coach 1: Spanish English I think is very strong as Chinese is amazing, and with with Spanish English.
Capstone Coach 1: I can do a translation and, basically, I can read the once I do the translation, I do a quick scan of the Spanish I can read Spanish with someone.
Capstone Coach 1: And I can tell oh that's funny and I can intercept that before it goes out, but once I do that quick scan and I send it out.
Capstone Coach 1: it's good to go I get I get people telling me all the time that okay you speak Spanish, no, no, not that well so.
Capstone Coach 1: The the model that i'm using, there is the Google cloud model, by the way, if you're doing a translation like this, make sure you're using the Google cloud model, and so I would I basically Google Google right Google translation.
Capstone Coach 1: Because the other ones could be one of the funky ones that don't work very well, but the Google cloud translator for Spanish English is very good and other languages, some are better than others, but.
Capstone Coach 1: So you your your API API has two possibilities, if you look at it says okay.
Capstone Coach 1: This is the standard model basically that's a neural network that somebody worked on and developed for this purpose and then over here we have the M l option machine learning option that API the ml API now that option allows you to develop a specific.
Capstone Coach 1: Language So if you wanted, for example, you could be this would be a commercial enterprise right, so you could sell a translator for legal documents of a certain type let's say legal documents that deal with property.
Capstone Coach 1: You might sell translators for medical documents, maybe translators for contracts and things like that so you're looking at a specialized language.
Capstone Coach 1: And you're looking at a specialized structure for that translation, you could use the machine the ml option in that API to develop your own customized neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: Using the basically tensorflow so that's what that second option is they charge more for it.
Capstone Coach 1: But once you developed your own neural network, then it could be, it could be yours, it could be proprietary.
Capstone Coach 1: You could sell access to it and things like that so that's part that's part of the reason why it's their their their default option works pretty well.
Capstone Coach 1: But if you wanted something that's closer to perfect for specific applications, you might switch over and use the ml API or email option.
Capstone Coach 1: and basically with this I say what you're doing there is you're going to be training a a network for that particular problem that particular option.
Capstone Coach 1: This is not just for translation, but also for for image recognition and so right now the the Google image they call it Google Google vision, Ai.
Capstone Coach 1: The in artificial intelligence for vision analysis, so they have they have a program in there, you can take a group picture.
Capstone Coach 1: And it will then look at every person that picture and give you this sentiment rating for that person.
Capstone Coach 1: Are they happy, are they sad, are they upset you know the whole nine yards that's that's kind of spooky and it looks actually like it's doing a pretty good job from what to what you might think personally about the images and versus what they actually saying going on there.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's what we mean by deep learning deep learning is basically tensorflow and what's charisse well.
Capstone Coach 1: tensorflow is the original API that came out of Google charisse is a simplified version of that it's sort of the difference, the difference between.
Capstone Coach 1: tinker and tk in the beginning, there was tk and tk was good, because it was complicated and RD us so some energetic programmers came along, and then did tinker to cater.
Capstone Coach 1: And that made it easier to use tk and made it tk more accessible to people that don't want to read all that documentation.
Capstone Coach 1: And so we had the similar situation here and the beginning there was tensorflow and somebody came along and said let's make it a little easier to use and we'll call it charisse so.
Capstone Coach 1: Actually it's a little bit more complicated now because of the fact that there are two options, if you look at the API on tensorflow, then you probably will need to do that.
Capstone Coach 1: We might do it tonight actually if you go out and look at do a Google search on tensorflow and you ask questions about it.
Capstone Coach 1: you're going to come into the API documentation which is, which is fairly good once you get used to the idea of what the the sense of what you're looking at.
Capstone Coach 1: The documentation for tensorflow and charisse is similar to Google the Google cloud API that you've been working with.
Capstone Coach 1: And because you've had that experience when you look at the tensor food API you're going to you won't feel so strange about it, you will feel like this is really odd.
Capstone Coach 1: it's basically a large book with an index on this side that lets you look up specific commands in tensorflow or charisse and then develop your your program based upon that information.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, all right so we're gonna take another five or 10 minute break and this time, though, while we're out, I would, I would like you to crank up your computer and, in particular, get anaconda going.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to talk about it and spider so crank up and content spider and.
Capstone Coach 1: I hope you still have your your environment from last summer that would be stats 656.
Capstone Coach 1: If you do please go ahead and crank up your spider pick up spider using that particular environment because we're going to want to install tensorflow and charisse and you may find you may find it's already installed in.
Capstone Coach 1: Now what i'm what i'm going to recommend we do is we create another environment called is tm 601 which is this class right so when we come back i'm going to walk you through this.
Capstone Coach 1: Those of you that are energetic you can get started with this be careful.
Capstone Coach 1: don't break it so okay let's take a little break get some shrink and come right on back.
Fireman, Karen: Can you tell us one thing, Dr Jones where you go oops too late.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Everyone back or.
Fireman, Karen: I have a question for you, Dr Jones sure.
Fireman, Karen: I had the environment i'm sure we all do, I had the environment from last year and I tried to make a clone of it.
Fireman, Karen: during the week before this class and then tried to do, I was hoping that I didn't need a new one, because I had already claimed the old one.
Fireman, Karen: and tried to do the install of your advanced analytics Your fourth line here and it it hung up it, it was a completely unhappy um it said something like I had an old Python and.
Fireman, Karen: It was pretty unhappy, how come I couldn't justin start.
Capstone Coach 1: And I had the same problem, and I think the the, the issue is that.
Capstone Coach 1: The.
Capstone Coach 1: Events analytics to kind of version of the of this package.
Capstone Coach 1: was put up.
Capstone Coach 1: All like last summer and since that time, some of the packages have changed.
Capstone Coach 1: And the installation that you have here one of the things that it does, if you go through the Condor system is it checks to see whether the other packages that are being used are the same version.
Capstone Coach 1: or not, as the version has changed, so what you're seeing, there are some some complaints about version.
Capstone Coach 1: Now.
Capstone Coach 1: I haven't I haven't you know done the full analysis on this, but it could be the just going to be easier, just to pip.
Capstone Coach 1: pip install advanced analytics and.
Fireman, Karen: Oh, more than the kinda I basically.
Fireman, Karen: stopped and started over with the is tm 601 clone from the base that you think.
Fireman, Karen: would have been a way instead to just do the.
Capstone Coach 1: Typical did for America.
Fireman, Karen: Well, when there have been a way to do just the pip install of the advanced analytics back to the one that I had from last year, or would that problem with the Python not being updated continue to be.
Capstone Coach 1: haven't traded yet so I don't know, but I do know that.
Capstone Coach 1: This was set up, so that you could either pivot or condo and I when you pip it doesn't really check those I don't think the checking of the dependencies or as rigorous with pip as it is with content they kind of a little more dictatorial about that.
Capstone Coach 1: And I think that's where you're getting these I got some read statements about this version is not that or something, but I haven't gone through to see, and the one thing I could do a, for example, is just update the install and reinstall it and conduct.
Fireman, Karen: This one just to say, by the way, now that I tried to do the other way, the way you said here, starting a new one.
Fireman, Karen: It keeps having this same fail problem failed with initial frozen Sabri trying we're flexible so that's that's kind of the infinite loop, it was in before, when I was trying to use the one that I had.
Fireman, Karen: Is with the one that I just closed for the.
beta.
Capstone Coach 1: Well let's get started with this and see and see what's going to happen here.
Capstone Coach 1: i've done is i've i've actually gone through this several times now, and my I have more on several computers, but the first thing that I would recommend you do is you.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, open up an anaconda prompt terminal window and then inside that terminal window issue this command, which is just kinda info dash dash double dash Ian vs now this, this is the kind of command that says show me all of the environments that are installed on my computer with anaconda.
Capstone Coach 1: Maybe you only have one environment that can the one environment that's automatically installed is called base.
Capstone Coach 1: If you create another environment that of course it would have another to a different name.
Capstone Coach 1: Last summer, we created at least one stats to 656 and maybe more than one i'm not sure, and so, if you do convince info it'll show you what environments are on your platform.
Capstone Coach 1: What I would recommend is let's before we go much further, through this is you create a new environment.
Capstone Coach 1: And this is going to be a clone of the base so you just say kind of create minus in the name minus in here is the name, so the name would be is tm 601 on this course.
Capstone Coach 1: And then double dash clone base so this will keep take a create a almost an exact copy of the base.
Capstone Coach 1: There are some things that are installed in the base that are not allowed to be installed in other environments there's three or four packages that have to do with the.
Capstone Coach 1: The system, the running of the anaconda system and they're in the base and they will not copy those over, but the all the other packages get copied over and put into this new environment is tm 601.
Capstone Coach 1: And once you have that new environment.
Capstone Coach 1: Then you can start to play with installing on the things and the first one would probably be advanced analytics, this is the kind of command for that.
Capstone Coach 1: You could also pip pip install advanced analytics now I think in, certainly in the conduct case you're going to get some complaints about some things not being up to date, or have a different version number just ignore it.
Capstone Coach 1: For now i've just decided to ignore it, because what really matters is what that those things that we use an advanced analytics.
Capstone Coach 1: Whether those things are installed, and the only thing that we're going to be using there is really the things that relate to neural networks random forests decision trees and regression.
Capstone Coach 1: There were some other things in there and I think this is where you're getting the complaints from that had to do with natural language processing.
Capstone Coach 1: And this would be topic analysis and sentiment analysis and some of those packages.
Capstone Coach 1: I think they change their versions and they complain a lot about versions.
Fireman, Karen: Actually, Sir, I think, part of it is when we started our class with Jamie um he told us about version 3.7 of Python and.
Fireman, Karen: I think I may have accidentally install that version into my base but i've now reinstall Python but it's still questionable as to whether this is working, when I tried to reinstall your stuff after I did that I don't know if other people are having the same problem.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah well, as I say, I just what I just decided to do was to install it, except the error messages or the complaints relate and keep on going on, that on this package for now.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: might have some time we'll take a look at that and see what.
you're up to apologize.
Kilani, Shadi: I think if you do pip install advanced analytics I think i'm not sure I saw a different version one.
Kilani, Shadi: or one or something I don't know if that's the same package, or if it's a different package with the same name, because I think there are two packages called Advanced analytics out there if i'm not mistaken.
Capstone Coach 1: There are some packages, but they they they they put a number on it, or something like that.
Fireman, Karen: So you think i'm.
Fireman, Karen: shiny did you pip install advanced analytics the way he said, without anything after the advanced analytics or something else.
Capstone Coach 1: No just pip install.
Capstone Coach 1: If you go to pci pci you'll find the best analytics is there.
Fireman, Karen: So we just do pip install advanced analytics that's the end of the line and try that.
Capstone Coach 1: sure.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah if you take.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see if I can bring this over.
Capstone Coach 1: nope I can't.
Fireman, Karen: It doesn't matter what things are failed.
Fireman, Karen: failed within their show frozen solve these things don't matter.
Capstone Coach 1: Probably not.
Good.
Capstone Coach 1: But I you know we'll see we'll find out.
Capstone Coach 1: I haven't I haven't run into that problem just john.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, let's see.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, there we go yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, there we go yeah finally get a browser, this is the API for tensorflow you see right here, you can you can find this information on the documentation tensorflow it's located@tensorflow.org O rg so if.org.
Capstone Coach 1: looks like this.
Capstone Coach 1: This is tensorflow.org and you can see that it's it's a fairly large operation, it is more than just than just Python so you have tensorflow for javascript tensorflow for.
Capstone Coach 1: Mobile phones, you know smartphones you have tensorflow for Java, but, of course, if you wanted to get the API you would look up here, where it says flow and you want to be looking at version two up here, that would be the one in the top left and then, if I click there.
Capstone Coach 1: You it brings you to this information that basically describes what what these things are doing so tensorflow, for example, charisse which is right here tf charisse if I click on that.
Capstone Coach 1: It gives me the information on.
Capstone Coach 1: Care us tensorflow charisse, and this is basically of the heart of what we're what we're using here, and so there are some information on the syntax and one of the most common things will be looking at is model, creating the neural network model tf charisse model.
Capstone Coach 1: So there's some you know some information here.
Capstone Coach 1: tell us a little bit about that.
Capstone Coach 1: allows you to do more, looking at FM.
Capstone Coach 1: Looking at things like time series forecasting image captioning means and so forth, and so on that's quite a bit of stuff here.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to be looking at much of this for the rest of the course basically we went through Google API now we're going to go through tensorflow charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: And to work, our way through this so that we get comfortable using different parts of this.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, in particular those things that are dealing with the the neural network analysis.
Capstone Coach 1: Now let's see now.
Capstone Coach 1: So this is spider on my machine here and.
Capstone Coach 1: If I come up here to the spider box on the right hand side, one of the things I can do is like and say condo.
Capstone Coach 1: And let me make this I don't think you know yeah because will make a bigger kinda info I nfl dash dash envy is like that, and it basically tells me.
Capstone Coach 1: The systems that I currently have install I just have to base and is tm 601 so before we still we started class I had to rebuild the machine, because I was having some problems and I thought that my.
Capstone Coach 1: anaconda Python system was corrupted was that bad, so I actually had to rebuild this and go through the process of setting this up now, if I go if I say condo list.
Capstone Coach 1: Like that it'll show me all of the packages that are in my current environment is is tm 601 you saw this asterisk there, it puts an asterisk next to the environment that you're currently in in spider so if i'm not in the base Simon.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, when I scroll down the list of packages that are in this is tm 601 I should see right here charisse version 2432 point 4.3.
Capstone Coach 1: And then there's one called kara's processing just below it version 1.1 Point two now, you should see something similar in your environment if you use the install here pip install charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: that's all you have to do.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, after you go pip install charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: You can do that in the screen will be here you in your I Python window, you can just type in pip install charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: And then it will, if it's not in your environment, it will put it in there if it is in your environment it'll say why are you wasting my time pip install charisse like that and it'll say it's already satisfied.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't really do anything I didn't do anything but, if you want to you can restart your kernel maybe you'll see it show up in your window then that's what this is all about, and then you want to also go pip install tensorflow.
Capstone Coach 1: like that, and if it's installed you'll get the sort of it's already there it's already there message, otherwise it will take some time and download some things on install them in your environment so in order to do tensorflow charisse you need to install tensorflow incurious.
Capstone Coach 1: And by the way in the unlikely event in the most unlikely event that your pip pip version is is below 19 you want to update it.
Capstone Coach 1: You can do that by just going pip upgrade pip and then it will upgrade your version of pip should be 19 or above so when you when you do condo list over here, there is a line for bit rate.
Capstone Coach 1: right here, so you can see my pet version is.
Capstone Coach 1: should be the most recent version of myth it's less than 19 then when you try to install tensorflow or or Kara she might get a message that says, I don't want to do this we upgrade your pip.
Capstone Coach 1: you'll see a bunch of other programs here that all start with the p is Python P, I P, why he why these programs are normally found in the API repository.
Capstone Coach 1: So if I open the sky backup.
Capstone Coach 1: And I go here and I go pee pee i.org like that it brings you to the p I P, I repository, which is where Hall, nearly all of the Python packages live, so you can search for packages here like advanced.
Capstone Coach 1: analytics.
Capstone Coach 1: or any other package that you might have an interest in.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: that's weird one for advanced analytics Oh, this is me yeah 1.33 this is me that's the version number 1.33 So you can see it's pip install advanced analytics who works right it right off of the pip away website this.
Capstone Coach 1: Is the website so if you create a package and you want it to be available through pip all you need to do is to install that package on.
Capstone Coach 1: dot org and there's a special way of doing that you have to set up a certain files that register your document and and this, for example, all this information, you see here.
Capstone Coach 1: And my that's my personal email address i'm surprised, they don't get a lot more crack mail okay anyway, I suppose the load of the people don't really read this Okay, so this was released last July 2020 so we're with a few years, a few months, out of date right.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, if you were to say search care us let's see what we get wow so we have Garros two by 4.3 deep learning for humans.
Capstone Coach 1: set out in June of 24 2020 and then you have other versions of charisse that are like want to be want to be terraces.
Capstone Coach 1: But this one, the first one cares 2.4 point three, this is the real McCoy right here, this is the guy that I think is the major one if we click on that.
Capstone Coach 1: Then you'll see it just says pip install charisse and you get version 243 should, and if you wanted to actually download the Python files that.
Capstone Coach 1: are implementing charisse you could click here and it'll go to github and download those things for you, this has a lot of stars 50,000 people downloading.
Capstone Coach 1: Nuts surprising.
Capstone Coach 1: And the maintainer is here this person F Galit is the person who's as Donald Francoist call it, yes he's the person who's volunteered to keep this all in order big big job.
Capstone Coach 1: I really admire people that have the interest in the time to do that and but you'll notice that it's pretty blank page right you don't see much documentation here right so because he's just one person who doesn't have time to do this.
Capstone Coach 1: And, of course, this let's see what we get if we searched on tensorflow let's see what we say there.
Capstone Coach 1: By the way, usually, this is a good place to look for documentation let's see what we have here.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, so you don't see in the obvious links here for documentation which tells me that if you want the documentation, you need to go to the github and so that would normally be the homepage or the download page right here.
Capstone Coach 1: So before we look in that let's take a look at tensorflow and see when we get there okay here's the top here tensorflow two for one click on that Oh, this is got one more professional looking well no really one paragraph okay forget it anyway.
Capstone Coach 1: If you, you see that it's fairly a little little light side, the author.
Capstone Coach 1: Google.
Capstone Coach 1: No person Google well there is that's the author, but the maintainer, so there is a list of a maintainer.
Capstone Coach 1: right here.
Capstone Coach 1: Some of these people are probably Google I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: But.
Capstone Coach 1: Programming language.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so if I wanted to find the the docs on something like this, I would go first of all go to the homepage let's see what happens when I click there up I got lucky.
Capstone Coach 1: So homepage they actually have a website for tensorflow and this website, of course, is where you'll find everything from downloading your personal version of this whole stuff.
Capstone Coach 1: And the the API would be here i'm a learning stuff here for tensorflow and then different versions, the javascript version and and so forth, so you could actually deploy some of tensorflow on your website, using the javascript version.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Of course they probably have a Facebook page somewhere.
Capstone Coach 1: Why tensorflow okay case studies and so forth, and so on, and let's see English oh yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: different languages of this page, you can see people that what parts of the world, people might be interested in tensorflow and.
Capstone Coach 1: Sherman not surprised, French, Italian and Latin America okay good, this is a surprise, Indonesia and you know what else is a surprise big surprise no indium.
Capstone Coach 1: india's huge when it comes to this kind of stuff so you know developing software of all sorts really surprised I don't see as well, I suppose English is.
Capstone Coach 1: The people that will be looking here we we may be more comfortable with English I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So let's go back to what we were doing here, so we would want to.
Capstone Coach 1: You know I suggested, if you have 636 56 install check do kinda list and see where the templates flow and charisse is there if it's there you're probably in good shape, although i'm using the most current version, which is version two of tensorflow.
Capstone Coach 1: And you saw what I when I did the Google on charisse it came back a little different charisse was.
Capstone Coach 1: This actually bothers me a little bit, oh no CARA CARA says coming back as 243 yeah 243 on charisse and tensorflow.
Capstone Coach 1: Is.
Capstone Coach 1: 2.1 so there were both to for something to forex and.
Capstone Coach 1: So that that helps us in terms of documentation, so if your versions to for something you probably in good shape, as far as your syntax and what you're using.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the problem that I ran into today, which was a massive problem was there something goofy about the syntax in tensorflow and i'll talk about that and it just about so.
Capstone Coach 1: Any questions on this page right here and getting your system setup to use tensorflow.
Fireman, Karen: So far, i've done it three times and I can't get tensorflow to show up on my convalesced.
Was that you care.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, it's.
Fireman, Karen: Okay yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: your microphone strange well if you if you do have some problems send me some email.
Capstone Coach 1: And we're going to we're going to have a Q amp a tomorrow night.
Capstone Coach 1: And you know we might talk about this, there are some troubles i've got to i've got to actually tear my computer apart and figure out what happened.
Capstone Coach 1: And why did I have to go and rebuild my computer, and so I can give you some feedback on maybe a similar problem that you might run into I don't know whether it's a common problem or just my bad luck, but it was it was a very nasty experience let's go to the next slide and here we go.
Capstone Coach 1: So i'm I have another file there and i'd like you to to download that file and we're going to run this to verify that your tensorflow and charisse is working okay Okay, and that well your your setup is working more or less.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so.
Capstone Coach 1: Go ahead and open up anaconda set your environment is tm 61 or stats 656 open up spider and then download this file it's called oil production with threads dot P, why and it's located on.
Capstone Coach 1: me open it up here.
Capstone Coach 1: We go.
Capstone Coach 1: whoops.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so i'm on the campus again.
Capstone Coach 1: And let me go back here to.
Capstone Coach 1: Is tm six or one.
Capstone Coach 1: And if you go into week number nine.
Capstone Coach 1: The program i'm talking about is right here it's called oil production with threads.
Capstone Coach 1: That program uses the data that.
Capstone Coach 1: it's all a production excel it's an excel file and that excel file you'll find and, last week the week a folder sober here and.
Capstone Coach 1: I think the week week eight assignments, right here all production xlr sex.
Capstone Coach 1: And in fact the the program we're talking about is also here in the weekend folder our production with threats.
Capstone Coach 1: Now let's.
Capstone Coach 1: let's open that file up.
Fireman, Karen: said we opened last week, so this week.
Capstone Coach 1: Now this is.
Capstone Coach 1: This you did not open this up, what is your question care.
Fireman, Karen: Is oil thing is in last week, so this week's.
Capstone Coach 1: The file the data file was introduced in the week eight assignment okay.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah So if you look at the week eight assignments you'll find the excel file.
Capstone Coach 1: right there.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, production excel as X.
Capstone Coach 1: And you'll also find the the program or production with threats that's the solution to the option to in the weekend.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to take a quick look at that here, in fact, what we're going to do is open it up and i'm going to do is clear my Colonel so i'm going to restart the Colonel here so that we have clean screen on the right hand side.
Capstone Coach 1: And then i'm going to.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, in the on the left hand side.
Capstone Coach 1: On the left hand side is the.
Capstone Coach 1: program well production with threads, this is the solution to option to.
Capstone Coach 1: Just open that guy up and you'll see that in the top i've got the advanced analytics stuff for linear regression stepwise and so all that fancy stuff is up here do we have advanced analytics for neural networks so Karen if you can run this program you don't have a problem.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Fireman, Karen: He said I got in it was allows solution.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: So we're gonna i'm going to run in here to get probably getting embarrassed because it may crash my computer I don't know but running it and.
Capstone Coach 1: looks like I have everything in place, I have the excel file in the same folder with the code.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, if you get through this without any mishaps, then the new environment shoots is set up, is working.
Capstone Coach 1: That is the part that deals with everything except tensorflow and charisse and we're going to get to that we're going to actually work that here, in just a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: But I want you to see whether this is working, first, because this will verify that you do have advanced analytics okay you sad, you have an okay version in your environment.
Capstone Coach 1: There may have been some errors, but they are in areas that are not going to be in fact in you.
Capstone Coach 1: They don't think will be using this for is the kind of thing we're doing here where we're running a neural network we're using psychic learn.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we're printing out the results that you see here, so this the results that are being displayed they can they come right out of the advanced analytics.
Capstone Coach 1: The calculations are done in psychic learn using the psychic learn models and or stats model so one of those two and.
Capstone Coach 1: But then when they're done the actual display of the information the printing of it is done using advanced analytics so if you've got this coming out in your in your from this program, then that means that your advanced analytics part is is installed and working fine.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, so going back.
Capstone Coach 1: To.
Capstone Coach 1: Back to here so that's showing you Basically, this is the, this is the program we're running well production with threats dot P, why.
Capstone Coach 1: Now.
Capstone Coach 1: Now what we're going to do well, I want to I just put some information here about how do you do do neural network and psychic learn this goes back last year, but.
Capstone Coach 1: As you can see in this slide number 35 you're using a a routine that so I could learn calls nlp multi layer preceptor on regrets or.
Capstone Coach 1: They have one called classifier as well nlp classifier regress or says, this is a neural network, where the target is interval.
Capstone Coach 1: So i'm doing supervised learning here i'm supervising the true learning of of a neural network, where the target is saying interval variable the cumulative log cumulative of oil production.
Capstone Coach 1: If you were doing something like nominal decision making, or categorical you're trying to identify different categories and the data, then this would not be in the middle P progress or would it be email P classifier.
Capstone Coach 1: All within the call it psychic learn now the parameters that are in here characterized or described what kind of a neural network, you have.
Capstone Coach 1: And so it says hidden layer sizes equals 20 km attempts, so we have a we have a neural network here, where we have two hidden layers.
Capstone Coach 1: The first hidden layer has 20 neurons or 20% ron's and then the second one behind it has 10 So these are one versus the the other, if you want.
Capstone Coach 1: The one that has 20 of them in it is connecting all 20 of those neurons to all of the inputs that are coming in this data now how many inputs are they.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, when you count up all of the one hit columns there are actually 42 of those one hit the columns and then there are another 11 or so interval variables features, so the total here is.
Capstone Coach 1: inputs, most of those inputs are columns of zeros and ones, those are the one hit columns but then the rest are numbers, the things like the depth of the well, the number of stages that that are that it's at and measures of per roster the.
Capstone Coach 1: And the I think the latitude and longitude are also in there as well, which is a little redundant, because one of the the neuro the the nominal variables is county and so, how much does the.
Capstone Coach 1: latitude longitude had to the guy actually counted the accounting designation is probably not much, but that's what we have, so we have.
Capstone Coach 1: inputs that are all attacking every all of the 20 preceptor runs in the first layer of this network and then these 20 preceptor ons or all attached to the 10% crohn's behind them.
Capstone Coach 1: So I have 20 times 10 or 200 weights that describe the relationship between the first layer, and the second layer
Capstone Coach 1: weights that are signed to the 200 lines that connect these 20 neurons with the behind 10.
Capstone Coach 1: Then, these 10 or all connected to the single output, so you have 10 weights they're going directly to that to that out, but.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the other information you have here is the activation function and it's not linear it's Arc tension or hyper doll hyperbolic tangent actually, and this is a sigmoid to type curve, and it goes, I think, from minus one two plus one, and in the middle, it would reach a value of zero.
Capstone Coach 1: The alpha value on the Left alpha is equal to 0.5.
Capstone Coach 1: Traditionally, and a neural network alpha is zero alpha in this case is the penalty, so you know we have looked at models since 656 we looked at models, where you were minimizing the.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of miss classifications, you are minimizing the summer squared residuals but then you have a penalty for.
Capstone Coach 1: Having weights that are too large and that penalty would be Point five times the sum of squares of those weights, that would be called the hell to penalty or the the the second.
Capstone Coach 1: norm, and so the nub the penalty or that is fairly smallest Point five times the sum of squared weights in the network.
Capstone Coach 1: But, at any rate, this helps to keep the weights in that work kind of even not none of them are really getting to a while too big and.
Capstone Coach 1: It helps to even out the distribution of those weights now if you make this penalty to large, then the weights all go to zero, and the network is going to come.
Capstone Coach 1: give you some really silly answers, like all of the values are 10 and you know all the predictions are 10 that this penalty is too large.
Capstone Coach 1: Because if it's too large, then it will force all of the weights to go see row, and then the predictions will be constant, this is just whatever the intercept is the average for the data.
Capstone Coach 1: If you make it too small, then you get back to basically a network with no penalties.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, then you can have a situation where some of the weights are too large and others are too small they're not sort of evenly distributed.
Capstone Coach 1: And some framework in the in the network and the purpose of the penalty is to just to smooth out the distribution of those weights.
Capstone Coach 1: And what that will actually do believe it or not, is it helps to helps the optimization procedure where you're trying to actually estimate what those weights should be.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's the estimation procedure and bad that procedure in this case, by the way, is called hattam.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, there are about to half a dozen or so different optimization possibilities with with this neural network, the psychic learn or network.
Capstone Coach 1: and the one that seems to be very robust and well accepted by many people is called Adam there are some others, though, that are very good.
Capstone Coach 1: lb F G, so I think it's called as one of the ones that's has a longer track record and it works very, very quickly, so for small data sets the lb fgs probably.
Capstone Coach 1: gives you a faster, more reliable solution this sense to work better for a larger set of data larger network.
Capstone Coach 1: Why, because this is a optimization procedure that uses randomization or it randomly decides which which some of the weights will be raised and some of them won't so it gives you a better shot at finding unusual combinations that have great results or Great rewards.
Kilani, Shadi: That Dr Jones I have a question.
Kilani, Shadi: I thought you said you don't want it to swallow you don't want it to be.
Capstone Coach 1: This one over here yeah.
Kilani, Shadi: But how do you like determine how do you I mean I don't be stopped in the middle and you just kind of work.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah yeah well that's, that is, the that's a huge problem with neural networks is that it's called you know, this is the problem of hyper parameter optimization.
Capstone Coach 1: So these things are neural network are all hyper parameters for the network and how do you choose those and how do you optimize those.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, you basically take small chunks of the data try different values with small chunks of the data do some cross validation maybe okay so there's some good cross validation routines in psychic learn.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, normally if you were doing this as for commercial purposes or you know professionally you would set up a little loop.
Capstone Coach 1: And chat and go over the possible values of the parameters that you want to adjust alpha being one of them for sure the other one being the number of precept ron's 20 and 10.
Capstone Coach 1: Those are those are the big deal the maximum number of iterations there is a message to the optimization algorithm basically saying don't do more than 1000 if you do more than 1000 stop so if you're doing hyper parameter optimization you properly set the Max iterations to 100.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you loop through your different possibilities using maybe 20% of the data or 10% of the data something of that type right.
Capstone Coach 1: So you you try to get Okay, it looks like we should be using this number of perceptions.
Capstone Coach 1: One of the things you might want to try out as different optimizer we're using that i'm here, maybe they'll be fgs maybe that would also be a good possibility.
Capstone Coach 1: The atom of activation function here is 10 he that are some others that that people like it so there's several things that here that can be adjusted and you might, given that you had time.
Capstone Coach 1: You would just use something like cross validation with a subset of the day out.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: it's a little bit, this is a little bit more tricky than then something like a random forest and decision trees were the main thing and those guys there's the how big is the tree how many.
Capstone Coach 1: How many levels, you have now, you can find situations where like the number of trees in the forest are important as well.
Capstone Coach 1: And also, where you might want to use the three way split instead of the two ways, but, but mainly it's the the depth that that affects things mostly there so little bit easier to deal with, but with a neural network, you have several things here that can be adjusted.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Any other questions.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, very good.
Capstone Coach 1: Great, so this is probably like deja vu from last summer.
Capstone Coach 1: At least, at least, that is, for me, like oh yeah we do that.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, here's the here's the charisse interval production data interval target, this is what you should get out of it.
Capstone Coach 1: When you run this program notice that the neural network here has 364 weights and that the number of observations is 4752 the number of features or inputs is 52, so this is this is good or not i'm sorry, the number of weights.
Capstone Coach 1: Well that's dumb I really goofed up on that one.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of weights is 1281 I don't know okay okay okay should be.
Capstone Coach 1: More than that okay that 12 364 was the number of iterations remember the the maximum number of iterations was 1000 it didn't get that far got the 364.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's that's provided to give you some information on whether you're running up to that that wall on the number of iterations.
Capstone Coach 1: R squared here is 39 eight, which is not to terrific but maybe if we just did something in the network, we could improve that this is the yeah there is no validation here, this is all of the data.
Capstone Coach 1: And so we could, by making this network larger i'm sure we can convert R squared up above 90% for sure, however it's called overfitting so we won't try that too hard.
Capstone Coach 1: But you could do that.
Capstone Coach 1: And okay so that's where we have a with that now any questions before we move on to the next challenge.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, now I apologize, I had planned to have about 10 more slides and then I ran into this problem on my computer what i'd like you to do is go to.
Capstone Coach 1: let's go to week number nine.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'd like you to download.
Capstone Coach 1: This program right here called Kara stop P, why.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, using this program we're actually going to test out.
Capstone Coach 1: Your install for tensorflow and charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: Now those of you that use kind of the way I do.
Capstone Coach 1: You might want to download this cheat sheet here.
Capstone Coach 1: This is a PDF one page sheet that tells you how to.
Capstone Coach 1: clone your environment, how to copy your environment, you know all that stuff that we've been doing here tonight, there is a cheat sheet there for this and the nice thing about it is it's.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, three months or now, you may want to do this again, and so this is what the sheet looks like i've even put in yellow here the things that most often I use.
Capstone Coach 1: Like the first one here I use if you want to list all of the environments that are installed on your computer inside of your I Python window.
Capstone Coach 1: If you want to change environments, this one right here contra activate get rid of our deactivate environment one and then make an exact copy of the base that would be the last one in this list of yellow here, and then there are other things you can do.
Capstone Coach 1: Like, for example, save your environment file this one right here, save your current environment to a file and then another one where you load from that file, so we actually did that in.
Capstone Coach 1: Where I saved my environment file and I think you loaded it and then that made sure that everybody's on the same page literally as far as their environment is concerned.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so i'm going to open up that that program I hope you have it, as well, and let me see if I could find it.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh there it is right here.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay i'm going to.
Capstone Coach 1: Go plus plus plus like that okay now, it turns out that these these import statements that you see at the top.
Capstone Coach 1: Those are what gave me a huge headache today huge because I was using this this programs got an old history, this goes back to last.
Capstone Coach 1: Last fall last summer I was working on this program, this is not a new Program.
Capstone Coach 1: And it turns out that something happened between then and now, so that these import statements must be done exactly the way you see them here, otherwise you get some very.
Capstone Coach 1: unusual messages and some funny behavior that I can I still don't understand so, for example, if you mess this up what will happen when you run this program it'll run some other code.
Capstone Coach 1: Like a different code with tensorflow and charisse in it, and like for the life of me I can't figure out.
Capstone Coach 1: What happened there, how does it do that because I, you know I changed the environment, I changed the environment.
Capstone Coach 1: I restarted the the console you know all that sort of thing I move the file location, I actually shut down Python shut down anaconda restarted it all of that stuff nothing helps every time I ran this code, it would actually run a different code.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, then I said well okay all right okay i'm going to reinstall anaconda which I did, and then I just the kit and it's still.
Capstone Coach 1: behave in this bizarre fashion really bizarre so if you're running tensorflow and charisse and you get some results that are totally bizarre like it's not running my program it's running some other program call me or sick getting contact with I want to hear because.
Capstone Coach 1: there's something going on here that just does not make sense at all.
Capstone Coach 1: The final fix for me, was to get this information that done up the way you see right here.
Capstone Coach 1: So, normally, for instance, you could have you could leave off the tensorflow right here, or you could put tf period here, no it's not having any of that it has to be spelled out.
Capstone Coach 1: And you know just boy, so much so much of a problem here okay well having said that, let me go ahead and restart the Colonel so that will clear out what we have on the right side and then we're going to try to run this now, I hope you have this open, you have this open.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay where's the data well let's talk about that so look at the import statements at the top here you'll see some of them look very familiar like impart warnings time important lumpy import pandas.
Capstone Coach 1: Namibian panelists are important because it turns out that tensorflow all cancers that what is the tensor okay all sensors are enough erase or vectors a tensor of zero length is a scale or.
Capstone Coach 1: A tensor of length one I want all first order tensor is a vector it's a list of numbers in not be so nothing is a matrix type language you have up here and nobody can supports one dimensional two dimensional three dimensional arrays.
Capstone Coach 1: A one dimensional array is basically something like a list in Python a one dimensional Ray is a one dimensional tensor.
Capstone Coach 1: A two dimensional array and lumpy is a two level tensor three dimensional lumpy is a three level tensor.
Capstone Coach 1: So, as you as you learn more and more about tensor and flow and charisse you're going to see oh that's a two level tensor or, this is a three level tensor What that means is that somewhere that code is a two dimensional or three dimensional matrix nothing OK.
Capstone Coach 1: So number three is kind of the universal language for storing multiple levels of numbers and in Python.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, one of the things that's really different about not be versus pandas who wanted pandas I like pandas better right well appendices got names of each column.
Capstone Coach 1: pandas wants you to have a two dimensional matrix a tutor you know rows and columns and he's column is going to have a label and then each row actually has a label in pandas that's why I want you to set it up.
Capstone Coach 1: number has none of that nobody says i've got a desolate first of all it's not restricted to dimensional you can go to three dimensional fordham and so whatever.
Capstone Coach 1: One of the things that's also true about lumpy every single number in there is stored in exactly the same fashion.
Capstone Coach 1: They are all integers or they're all float 64 normally or they are all strings right.
Capstone Coach 1: So you can't have a non P array were in the first row i've got strings in the second row we've got integers and third rule i've got full loading point, no, no, no, no, that doesn't work that way so.
Capstone Coach 1: A matrix a vector or matrix in nothing must all have the same data type data type.
Capstone Coach 1: And if they don't have the same date of the five you normally, this is a source of errors and a lot of algorithms so tensorflow, for example, if you happen to give it a lumpy Ray.
Capstone Coach 1: That that doesn't have the data type the tensorflow is expecting like tensorflow obviously may be expecting floating point.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, if you send it over an integer data it may complain loudly about that at any rate, there is a tight connection between tensorflow and nothing so nothing is there for a reason.
Capstone Coach 1: pandas is there because it's easy to read, data from an excel file right if you're going to bring data in from excel.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the warnings of the hair, this is bizarre import warnings take a look down here, it says warnings filter warnings right here, ignore.
Capstone Coach 1: Future warning Okay, it turns out that that the mini from time to time, the folks who are working on tensorflow will put a warning in there that says a future release is not going to do this.
Capstone Coach 1: So you better not do it you're advised not to do it because it's going to break in a future release that's called a future warning.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, often those future mornings are just rumors they're not really incredible so you can you can look at them one time and then you can say ignore after that, so they don't show up.
Capstone Coach 1: You know these things can can be rows and rows and rows and rows of of warnings that.
Capstone Coach 1: I can, I saw him once that's enough so you can you can use this filter warnings to ignore a certain category like, in this case, two categories future warning.
Capstone Coach 1: And they are somewhat common with tensorflow and carers, so I just stick it in there, and if you start seeing those warnings you some another other categories might be simply.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, general warning of some sort that is irritating and you can filter those out as well.
Capstone Coach 1: And then i'm going to time everything, so I have my little time here start time the clock starting to run and then it says, right here, it says me and I St dot load data boom one bloom coming over okay what's happening here is it's actually going to bring in data from.
Capstone Coach 1: From the tensorflow.
Capstone Coach 1: package, so there are there are certain data files that are part of tensorflow and you can load that data and what's that's what's going on here.
Capstone Coach 1: Now you'll notice up here, where it says m NIS T that first from tensorflow Eric Harris data sets data so that data says, there are several data sets that we can bring in, and this is one of them him in I T.
Capstone Coach 1: it's a small data set so we're running with that, and then the rest of these like models layers I think you know what that's about this is about defining describing the neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: So, for example, sequential is a neural network that is going to be a feed forward network so sequential says i'm going to have one rule of.
Capstone Coach 1: precept ron's and then, if I have a second row it's going to go right behind the first and the third one, will go right behind the second and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: Now regular users dense rather has to have says basically every input is connected to every preceptor on in the first layer
Capstone Coach 1: All of the precepts runs in the first layer connected to all the ones in the second and all the second are connected all third dense dense mean should we cut a lot of connections here, and that means a lot of weights.
Capstone Coach 1: will drop out we don't normally use what we'll get to that, and then the regular regular risers have to do with the optimization.
Capstone Coach 1: And the.
Capstone Coach 1: activation function, so we talked about.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm you've already seen this an optimizer and tensorflow Adams very popular notice it's spelled with a capital hey over here.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so it's important to set up the import statements correctly.
Capstone Coach 1: and be aware, if you get started getting bizarre messages it's probably to it has to do with this, and this somehow between last summer into the end today this changed the syntax for this changed and that's why I was goofing around with the.
Capstone Coach 1: Proof I think I have it here the documentation, here it is.
Capstone Coach 1: The documentation on tensorflow right here, this is the API notice it says tensorflow core two for one make sure if you're looking at tensorflow documentation, it does say to four.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you then all the commands that you use in tensorflow are going to be described at least syntax will be described here.
Capstone Coach 1: If it says tf that means it's abbreviation tensorflow.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so what we're going to do, then, is we're going to try running this, the first thing I want to do, though, instead of running the entire thing let's just try to run.
Capstone Coach 1: The.
Capstone Coach 1: hang on here.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to run the first 31 line so i'm going to put i'm going to try to comment everything out pass line 31 i'm going to put a triple thing there and go from 31 all the way down to the bottom.
Capstone Coach 1: And let's see if that has commented everything else out.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay cross your fingers and hit go and they run thing here.
Fireman, Karen: I ask you a quick questions Karen.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh i've already hit go.
Fireman, Karen: I can still ask you a question right.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, it work what.
Fireman, Karen: Are you interested P, why.
Fireman, Karen: Are you in charisse dot P, why is that the file you're in.
Capstone Coach 1: A it's called period.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you go to.
Fireman, Karen: that's Okay, I just want to know which one it is that's fine.
Capstone Coach 1: Did you I didn't know, there was more than one.
Fireman, Karen: Okay that's it Thank you okay guys, thank you.
sure.
Capstone Coach 1: So did you get this.
Capstone Coach 1: Anybody anybody can confirm, they got that.
Amanda Pham: I got that.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, good good good good.
Capstone Coach 1: What are you looking at or what's your this is program is doing is it's analyzing the images and.
Capstone Coach 1: We have thousands of them have these are actually black and white images of somebody writing the letter, the numbers zero so they they asked a whole bunch of people to write on a piece, you know with a pencil the the number is zero through nine.
Capstone Coach 1: And so they have, I think it's something like 10,000 images and you know I wonder about 1000 of them are zeros and about 1000 or ones, and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: Of course, you can see those and kind of sloppy and maybe this year was up to the top or down to the bottom, or over on the left or something like that they're not necessarily centered.
Capstone Coach 1: And they're in this case it's a white and Gray and black and so each of these little squares is a pixel.
Capstone Coach 1: And if you looked at, instead of looking at the image, if you looked at the data what you would be looking at is a two dimensional numpty array.
Capstone Coach 1: And in fact the dimensions are 28 by 28 that's the the size of these images 28 pixels on the top going up and 28 pixels going on the bottom so 28 times 28 is what is it seven.
Capstone Coach 1: I wrote it down somewhere here.
Capstone Coach 1: 784 28 times, so there are actually 20 784 pixels each pixel in that number the array is going to be a number from zero to 255.
Capstone Coach 1: So I believe i'm correct in saying that if it's black it's also zero and if it's white it's 255 it's one one extreme or the other, and then, if it's a number between zero and 255 then it's a great.
Capstone Coach 1: Some sort of Gray scale for that particular pixel right so each image then represents 784 data points essentially.
Capstone Coach 1: And now, what we're going to do is we're going to build a neural network model that will allow us to present the to the model, a handwritten image a photo and then the model will come back and say oh that's a one or two or something like that so let's take the the stop here line 31.
Capstone Coach 1: And now we're going to go and this this program is going to create a test file and a training vile.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Okay let's put the stop at 64 line number 64 three little dots there.
Capstone Coach 1: Three little come on record.
Capstone Coach 1: quotes so hit row hit go again.
Capstone Coach 1: And we'll see the same sort of pictures coming up and a little bit more information, you can see coming out it says 60,000 training images.
Capstone Coach 1: And 10,000 test images, I was wrong there's a total of 70,000 images each image has 784 pixels.
Capstone Coach 1: And 10 classes, that that means that the response variable the y variable is nominal with 10 levels 10 levels so you see this network is going to be kind of large.
Capstone Coach 1: Because you have 784 inputs 70,000 will be training with 60,000 of those and 60,000 cases and then the number of precept ron's we're going to have to have a bunch because we want basically a very high level of accuracy, here we want very few misclassification.
Capstone Coach 1: Now what we just wrote wrote over was the code that is used to create that the separate the training and the test data.
Capstone Coach 1: And then notice the scale here, it says X train is X train divided by 255 X test divided by that's because the original data, these are all integers and their integers between zero and 255.
Capstone Coach 1: Now what we just did this we've converted those managers to floating point and they're going to be values between zero and one we've really scaled them now, this common practice in image analysis.
Capstone Coach 1: is basically instead of dealing with integers we're going to deal with float and I think part of the rationale for that is because it helps in fitting the the neural network, it goes a little more smoothly.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you can see, the data here the coming in from the data frame.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: More data coming on let's fit the model so we'll take those three coats off of lines 64.
Capstone Coach 1: And we go to the bottom and we're going to turn that loose as well and run the whole thing.
Capstone Coach 1: And we'll run it and then we'll come back and talk about what we saw now when you run the whole thing, by the way, let's talk about the model here just for a minute because you're going to see something the This is where the model gets defined you see this line 65.
Capstone Coach 1: down two lines.
Capstone Coach 1: 70.
Capstone Coach 1: This is the definition of the neural network So you see it says model ad model ad model, each one of those is a layer is a layer
Capstone Coach 1: The its first of all it says this is sequential so one layer goes after the next the first layer has 1,000% trance you see that 1000 perceptions, in the first layer, the number of inputs, is this right here it's going to be 60,000 so number trainee values.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, that might be it looks like I may have an error here, and then the activation function is called R e l you.
Capstone Coach 1: This is a very common activation with image analysis or any of the super big.
Capstone Coach 1: neural networks, because this is calculated extremely fast what they do here is normally the the activation function is a curve or sigmoid curve that requires the calculators and the sign function or.
Capstone Coach 1: hyperbolic tangent or something like that this guy is a straight line between zero and one so it's super fast to calculate what the activation value should be it's just a table lookup.
Capstone Coach 1: zero to one so that's why it's very popular.
Capstone Coach 1: And this this runs a little slow so we'll see about that.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the last row it says add dense notice that this is the output row and so it's in here we have the, the number of values is the number of it's 10.
Capstone Coach 1: it's the number of different values in train or 10 different columns.
Capstone Coach 1: And the y value the y output is actually 10 columns with zeros ones so there's there's one in each row and that one would decimate what the why actually is, with a with a number actually yes.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the activation function is called soft Max and soft Max is an activation function that gives you a probability as the prediction.
Capstone Coach 1: So we're going to get as output prediction we're going to get the prediction the probability it's a zero probability that it's a one probability that it's a two ordinarily all those probabilities will be small, except one.
Capstone Coach 1: But sometimes you might have two of them that have point five, and a point five or their you know both of them are somewhat tied.
Capstone Coach 1: You might see that in the data as well, and then model summary says that's it that's done I finished describing the model and then model compile.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, it says we're going to ask for a loss function we're going to use cross entropy called categorical cross entropy.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, for the optimizer risk going to use data, and we want to produce as part of our metrics accuracy how accurate is this model.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of epochs and the numbers size here, this is going to mean something now i'm afraid that we're running a little bit about a time here then next.
Capstone Coach 1: Week i'll go into this a little bit more detail, but this number 10 and 32 has to do with how the network is trained.
Capstone Coach 1: First of all it says i'm only going to go through 10 tenant or iterations and for each iteration i'm going to use 32 cases 32 images.
Capstone Coach 1: And each iteration i'll get better and better at predicting you know producing the correct answers.
Capstone Coach 1: let's since we're out of time here let's hit this and run and watch it run this this is going to take a little bit of time and you'll see on my screen here, and you share your screen as well.
Capstone Coach 1: The first thing that you'll see after the pictures is a description of the neural network, and so you can see here, it says Okay, the first we have inputs coming in here and.
Capstone Coach 1: That is.
Capstone Coach 1: We have 1,000% bronze and the first hidden layer and the number of weights in that hidden layer is 780 5000.
Capstone Coach 1: And where did that number come from well you take 1000 times 784 and really each image has 784 pixels.
Capstone Coach 1: So 1000 times 784 gives you 780 4000 parameters, but then each preceptor on has an intercept it's called the bias term and since I have 1000 of them, I have to add another thousand to my number, so the first hidden layer actually has 780 5000 weights right.
Capstone Coach 1: The second hidden layer has over a million, a little over a million and the third also a little over a million.
Capstone Coach 1: sweets, so now, I think I have a programming error here I think over here in my definition of my.
Capstone Coach 1: second and third layers i'm using the input dimension as X train shape one I think that's wrong, I should have said 1000 here.
Capstone Coach 1: The input dimensions for the second hidden layer would be the 1000 values coming out of here, so I think I have a bug in this development but.
Capstone Coach 1: you'll see that it's still running and the total number of weights that I have in this network is this obscene it's 2.7 million weights and you can see that the accuracy is being displayed here as it goes along and right now we are at epoch number four.
Capstone Coach 1: Remember there's it's going to want to go through 10 epochs right now we're working on number four and notice that the accuracy from number three was 97% accuracy.
Capstone Coach 1: That sounds pretty good, but when you think about it, we have 60,000 images that means that about 3% of those images are not being as correctly identified and 3% of 60,000.
Capstone Coach 1: or so, is a big number right so like to get this back under you know something much higher like 99.9 you know percent and it turns out, actually with these data, you can get you can get 100% accuracy on this.
Capstone Coach 1: But you do have to crank up the number of each box, the number of the amount of training, you do here and, as you can see we're about halfway through right now and it's probably what five minutes or 10 minutes down I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah up yes up here, it says we started at 906.
Capstone Coach 1: And it's now 910 something like that so yeah it's about five minutes, so we have about five minutes to go, are there any questions before we get out of here for tonight.
Fireman, Karen: and
Leiah Wyckoff: Again, Dr Jones this is Leah, I just wanted to know if we have a homework assignment for this.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, I don't have a homework assignment yet obviously I haven't been able to get as far as I want to get tonight, and so I may, I will probably give you an assignment but it's going to be lightweight.
Capstone Coach 1: Like run this program.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Purkiss, David: Many of us have our capstone presentation next.
Capstone Coach 1: We are you that's why you haven't coming up.
Capstone Coach 1: Right.
Fireman, Karen: yeah we have them this week.
Capstone Coach 1: This week.
Fireman, Karen: Next next weekend next.
Purkiss, David: Next week.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah go well, that seems to me like a reasonable a reasonable thing to do is just to say no homework this week.
yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, yes okay you you twisted my arm Okay, no homework this week and i'll tell you how vr that in the we thought it was in the best interest to everybody down some time to get ready for their capstones.
Leiah Wyckoff: Thank you, Dr Jones.
Leiah Wyckoff: my mind control mechanism is working.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, whoever say whoever made that suggestion.
Capstone Coach 1: You had to give you taking mouse presenter so all right, that was a good suggestion.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, any other questions or comments.
Fireman, Karen: There were a couple checks going on, that I missed a little bit of some line changes that people were making was there, like an overriding comment from people can anybody mentioned it.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah there was one comment about the wind in West Texas.
Fireman, Karen: That correct no I mean.
Capstone Coach 1: don't go try to try flooding that little thing unless you just want to see it go sailing out over the characters so where.
Capstone Coach 1: You have to fly it inside obviously that move things made the fly in a garage or later living room or something like that.
Purkiss, David: Karen Leah posted all the lines at the top suppose dad.
Fireman, Karen: where's that i'm sorry.
In chat.
Fireman, Karen: She posted all the ones.
Fireman, Karen: i'm not sure i'm following them at all it's really no phone.
Leiah Wyckoff: Aaron are there was the modifications that were made to the import statements at the top of the ERIs file and I just copied and pasted it to match the changes that he made if you replace your import statements with what I copied and pasted that should help out.
I guess.
Fireman, Karen: You later.
Capstone Coach 1: Recently resurgence, possibly.
Leiah Wyckoff: yeah i'll throw it in discord.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, the import statements different from what I have here on the screen.
Leiah Wyckoff: different from what you have on the screen, but they are different from the.
Purkiss, David: file fine.
Leiah Wyckoff: We originally.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, my goodness.
Capstone Coach 1: what's in the file.
Leiah Wyckoff: Okay i'll post it up on to the.
Next.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you so much Leah think.
Purkiss, David: about the import statements that you uploaded Leah are all running they're running for me now, thank you okay.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah that's what I was saying there's something bizarre about that and I try to figure out what's going on but okay well good luck this week and.
Capstone Coach 1: we'll go ahead and do a QA tomorrow night just to see say hi and see what's going on, you have any questions and maybe I can have some answers to what's going on terrorism tensorflow here and then too so.
Coleman, Clay: Dr Jones as well, it may be a good idea to not have a main curious, because I think it's picking up back and forth between the two that.
Coleman, Clay: It was trying to like I was reading about the.
Coleman, Clay: Oil one with reading it was picking up the curious why that you named the.
intro.
Capstone Coach 1: that's that is correct yeah.
Coleman, Clay: So changing the name of that charisse something else.
Jim Clark: yeah so.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, I tried changing the name, so I tried change the name I did all that.
Zuberi, Bilal: No.
Zuberi, Bilal: fester Jones what what clay is suggesting is in your week nine folder if you can rename the charisse dot P, why file.
Zuberi, Bilal: To charisse example dot P, why the reason for it is when you're running your oil production with threats Python code, it tries to refer terrorists object from a local directory, which has been.
Capstone Coach 1: 900 my goodness, oh.
Jim Clark: yeah this is Jim that's exactly what.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, my goodness okay.
Jim Clark: Try to run an image file and never run a regression.
Capstone Coach 1: So never, never, never use a name that's too obvious right okay.
Coleman, Clay: I don't know if that was something you were planning to earlier, but that way you don't have to go dig around with stuff that's all you're all.
Capstone Coach 1: appreciate it, you know good idea okay guys.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, you.
Capstone Coach 1: Night Thank you so much been a good group tonight and.
Swanson J, Charles: Thank you, thank you very much.
Zuberi, Bilal: Thank you, thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: goodbye now.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Are you guys.